Everything we represent and stand for is also applicable to content creator on YouTube, on Twitch, on Instagram, even on Fortnite and Roblox. We're all struggling with the same challenges of like discoverability, engaging our audience, monetizing, having access to financing, and then being single or activity being recognized in the broader physical world as some legitimate activity from which we can make a living. [music] &gt;&gt; [music] &gt;&gt; Hey everyone, welcome to the Smart Economy podcast where we ask your favorite builders the questions you wish you could ask yourself. This is a production of neonnewstoay.com and I'm your host Dylan Grabowski. In this episode, we're joined by Sebastian Bourge, the co-founder of Sandbox, a 3D Metverse game that launched in 2012, and a global ambassador for the Sand Chain L2. In this conversation, we discussed how CryptoKitties changed Sandbox's trajectory from web 2 to web 3, how products in every vertical need to adapt to market needs, building through the ups and downs, why the team is launching the Sand Chain L2, how to build effective partnerships, and so much more. Just a reminder, nothing said on this podcast is a solicitation to buy or sell any tokens and that the guest or host might hold tokens discussed in any given episode. You can check out a full disclaimer at neonnew.com. Also, if you enjoyed this episode, please rate and review it on your favorite podcasting platform and don't be afraid to share with friends and family. Every rating, review, like, and comment really helps us reach more people and bring you even more of your favorite guests. With all that said, I really enjoyed this conversation with Sebastian, and I hope you enjoy the conversation, too. What's up, everybody? Welcome to the Smart Economy podcast. Today, I'm psyched to be joined by Sebastian Bourge, the co-founder of the Sandbox and now Sand Chain Ambassador. How you doing today, Seb? Amazing. Thank you. Very excited to be here today. &gt;&gt; Yeah, I'm excited to have you on. Um, I think anybody who's been in the space for quite a while will remember the the kind of like epic run that Sandbox had and just kind of how it was like a prolific project during the NFT metaverse days. But before we kind of like dig into what was and and what's next, um, as I was kind of like digging into your background, I was looking in on your website and I noticed that you had listed all of these languages that you've been studying, English, German, Spanish, Chinese. So, um, why do you think it's super important for people to be able to speak more than one language? Well, that's a great starter and I think like it really culture is global but like you don't want to have like a globalized culture in a way. So like the best way to understand a lot of the nuance is to start opening yourself and you open yourself by starting with a language like starting to understand the expression the ethmology and being able to to even if now probably with AI and the new airports you can translate on the fly and like we don't we it might become effortless to learn the language I think there is a lot of like um richness in the language and subtilities and accent it's quite even within the same nation or country, you will have so many different like accent of the same language and expression that could vary from the north to the south. It's quite fun and that's also like you know um I think it's a great icebreaker anywhere you go as soon as you start saying the first basic word like just show you care for like the local culture people become more receptive just more friendly out of it and uh I find it cool and I think it's just like it's worth expanding uh your knowledge learning new things all the time. &gt;&gt; I love it. What's what's your favorite language you're learning right now? Hey. Um, as I spend more time in Korea recently, I I started to learn a few more funny words in Korean. [laughter] Awesome. Um, cool. So, yeah, I'm I myself am embarking on the path of learning a new language. I've been studying Spanish pretty hardcore for um a a good part of the second half of this year. So, um it's a really enriching and also humbling experience. So before we kind of like dig into crypto, gaming, web 3 and all that, you have a pretty interesting background, a general background in startups. So how did you end up working in startups and then how did that lead into your pre web 3 gaming era? &gt;&gt; Right. U well as far as I remember, I've always been a geek. Like I always like to adopt new technology, buy new things on the first day to understand how they work. And part of myself like like [clears throat] I it's not just about like discovering the new technology, it's always like understanding but how does it work and how do we make it more accessible, palatable to more people, attractive to more people. Um so as soon as I got my first video game uh console, I I wanted to make my own games one day. As soon as I get my first computer, the first thing I I wanted to do is like disassemble software program to understand like the logic behind it and think through uh well like to make allow them the program to do more thing than they were usually intended to do. Um and so like that led me to go into like an engineering school in France in network and telecommunication. As soon as like I had the first cell phones, I wanted to understand but how does cell phone work? how can you communicate with other line and from anywhere in the world uh and I learned about GSM protocol in your GPS edge and all the pre3G 4G 5G uh and 6G now highspeed connections um and along that journey I actually did an exchange program uh in Hong Kong at the Chinese university in Hong Kong in my last semester out of which like not only I discovered the local culture I traveled around Asia and my co-founder Archer Madrid approached me back in the day and I we started working together remotely which was quite unusual I would say back in 2007 2008 to start like taking a stranger call over Skype or some VIP call with a card you scratch and say hey I'm a French entrepreneur building a startup in new technology peer-to-peer using Berant and I'm interested in what you've been doing because I've been an open source developer in that field of technology and would you like to work together on a project? I say, "Yeah, sure. Let's do that." And that was kind of like the beginning of a great journey that still goes on today. As as soon as I finished that exchange program, I came back to Paris. I hired me, did an internship, graduated, got my diploma, and like that was my first job in the as COO of like that first startup. And after a while, like we had first exit, that company sold out to a CDN network uh in Europe. We co-ounded another one that this time was um one of the first web two startups enabling users to upload photo, video and music online in the cloud and stream it from anywhere on any device. Before it was called like cloud streaming. Um before Netflix, before Spotify. uh we sold that business again and then in 2011 we start in mobile gaming and we co-ounded one of the first mobile free-to-play game studio now like leading to one of my childhood dream like yeah I want to make video games and I want to have the ability to make video games like the startup guy in a garage like Bill Gates when started or IBM stories you probably heard of and and that was the right time and what I figure out is like there's always the right time to get started Starting as an entrepreneur in the field of new technology, of course, you're going to take most of the risk and the market might not be ready, but it's also when the barrier to entry is usually the lowest to new entrance and you can learn the ropes and potentially establish yourself as a long-term actor. And so 2011, uh, we co-ounded this mobile game studio. We built games with characters and IPs using strong uh franchise like Garfield, Snoopy, Adam's Family and we the first sandbox game back then a 2D game on mobile where uh people could just by the touch of their finger which was really new with the iPhone and an Android phone back then was not just playing with a reactive with a stus on a reactive screen which was super slow but like with a finger things react super fast, super smooth and you feel like you could crate with a finger uh on the iPhone screen and that was this this feeling this magic of like I can make a game and anyone else can make a game by the touch of their finger that drove the success the initial success of sandbox uh we had over 40 million uh downloads 70 million player made creation by that time uh we kind of were seen as like the 2D Minecraft had a lot of cool updates people were making not just art but games, music, electronics, STEM and uh it also led me to um to think through like great we have one of the most successful user generated content game. We've been in this field of user content for quite some time now. But I can also see that our top creator are actually um um they're not staying after a few months, after a few years like they were like leaving the game and we that at that moment we realized that in a way um creators enjoy the passion of creating. It's a good hobby for them but if they were not able to make a revenue from it like they would move on to the next thing and no matter how hard we tried and we tried but the technology failed us at that time like literally to be able to share some portion of revenue with people who contributed in the content. I had to find their name in the game, match it with potentially a social profile on Twitter if they had one, to find if there's a way to DM them to get to an email to then send them by email a contract that I was writing. So then I could send a PayPal payment to imagine a number of step and all the effort and hassle to be able to support the creators who contribute to the game and you only touch like a tiny slice of them. Um so frustration came out of it like and I didn't find a solution basically to share revenue with our top creators on mobile until um well until I step in on virtual cats like the joke is like cryptokitties is was one of the first blockchain based game for those of you who haven't been long enough in crypto that was by itself not a fantastic game like we've already see like so many like uh games where You take care of an animal, you breed them and they evolve as you feed them and and play with them. But there were three innovation underneath that we found when we benchmark and deconstructed the game. The first one was the cat were actually not bought from the developer itself but from other players. The second was that actually was not bought on the game itself in a closed environment but you had to go to this eBay of cats called openc back then. So like a marketplace external and it was not bought with a credit card in US dollar or euro. It was actually paid with if cryptocurrency and at that moment I realized but that's fantastic like instead of having virtual cat or like virtual I don't know dogs or dinosers or fishes or whatever like we should just allow people to make their own NFTts and then they can sell it themselves on the marketplace and they can get paid themselves without me in the middle like I don't even need to write a contract or figure what's their PayPal or whatever. And so the technology at that time in 2017 would actually come as a real solution to the problem we encountered. And [snorts] that's at that moment that we say look that's an opportunity we should be again first mover let's rebuild sandbox let's make it 3D p multiplatform have a marketplace and use NFTs and tokens at the core to to enable our credtors to monetize and um uh so so that's not the end of the journey then move forward seven years later we've grown sandbox as one of the largest um decentralized virtual world people know us for metaverse But ultimately we've also like brought in over 8 million users into web 3. We partner with more than 400 major brands from the like of like Gucci, Snoop Dog, uh Jurassic World, Attack on Titan, Ubisoft, Warner Music, many other cool entertainment brand, not only Western one, like a lot of Japanese, Korean brand as well. So like the multicultural aspect played an important role in that success. And we're also known for like being a leader in virtual real estate and for sand the main token of the platform which is um a top 100 cryptocurrency today still. I also think that land has a lot of um name brand power in the blockchain space particularly for people who were here in 2020 2021. Um and you just brought up a lot of really great things that I want to um unpack. Um, CryptoKitties is also the reason why I started exploring alt L1s in 2017 and 2018, which ultimately led to me working as a content creator because of these Alt L1s. Um, so I'm curious before we kind of like dig in further, was the first time you kind of heard about blockchain or crypto, was your first exposure this moment when you realized that there was a problem and you couldn't reward your content creators and now, holy crypto can provide that solution or did you kind of have an earlier exposure and an earlier aha moment to to blockchain and crypto? So I had an earlier exposure like I started to find out about Bitcoin in 2016 early 17 and and like I was again like a geek and engineer I say wow what is this new thing I don't understand it let me print and read the whole white paper to make sure and then like but but how is it mine like I don't understand still like okay I need to buy a minor and run a minor at home and like what this thing a pool and end pool and then I literally put my hands into it until I fully understand the proof of work and so and then at some point I got excited. I say oh wow okay I want to do my own mining facility. So I built a whole business plan calculating the cost of electricity into so many places around the world cuz I say and then I I realized I say hm that that's interesting but that doesn't seem such a a fun business because basically it's just like hosting and power and running racks and if you've been into the collocation business data centers business etc you know because that was needed for storage for video and for we hosting terabytes of content before on the previous startup that we did and I was in a CDN network. So I had already had all that experience with data center and self-hosting and before cloud hosting and AWS really blew up uh on that side too. And um and I thought like well maybe it can be something interesting that not something that would I don't see what's the dayto-day like after a while. You set it up it runs requires some maintenance. um that's important choice to do and of course like negotiating your supply of energy and so on but I'm a builder at her I do product for helping creators uh I've done games that touch millions of players so I I felt like and then cryog came and I said ah now there's a game that use that technology interesting and that's where like what we do in the gaming industry usually when there's a game and there's popular successful game we they constructed. So we look at okay what are all the steps of the user journey the first time user experience the moment of the payment pay walls and so on to understand why they are successful and people like playing and replaying those games and uh that's where like the deconstruction of cryptokitty and also cryptogies interesting is one of the reason why we joined forces and became part of animoka brands they acquired our game our mobile game studio in 2019. Back in the day, Animoka Brands was just um uh just there was they were bigger companies than us obviously, but they were a mobile game publisher. They were taking like successful um game from the west, US and so on to localize and publish them on Asian market like China, Korea, Hong Kong, Japan. basically not just translating but localizing bringing local IPs and characters to make them attractive and based on like the the the preference of local players and so we were discussing a few years back around like bringing sandbox to um to Asia basically make it a successful Chinese version and so on and then when we talked again and they say oh we're now the publisher of cryptogies in China and say ah that's a interesting coincidence because like we're literally moving into NFTs thanks to CryptoKitties. And back in July 2018, like Hong Kong hosted a first conference called Nifty. That was one of the first time like I guess very first blockchain crypto conference related to uh featuring gaming and um uh many of like like companies like OpenC, AXI Infinity and so on we made early on at that time. Um and um yeah and then we we felt like look like they can bring us the distribution in Asia. They can help us to understand those market and we're literally aligned now into like NFT the future for games. So let's join forces together and that's uh how like we we move along became acquired by Animoka brands and afterward like we saw like well the potential is to really scale up sandbox into its own success. So we spin it out, raise our own, raise funds from external investors and um and grew it as we've as we can see today. &gt;&gt; Yeah. I'm really curious. Was Cyber Park a thing when you were studying in Hong Kong? &gt;&gt; Uh so in 2007 I don't recall I did my point to answer Cyberport. I don't recall going there and basically CK is more in new territory. So I was more around Shati in Monkok and then then going down let's say I had a great young student life like every Friday night into Luong and Central and all of that but I was not focused on business by that time. &gt;&gt; Right. So &gt;&gt; LKF was more fun. &gt;&gt; Yeah. [laughter] &gt;&gt; Cool. Yeah. Because um I was in Cyberport in 2023 and Anamoka had a pretty strong foothold there. Um, and it seems like that is the where students get funneled into this kind of corporate park where there's a lot of web 3 and other types of businesses and entities that are located. And that was kind of the first time I got exposure to Anamoka brands. So maybe before we we jump into how the relationship with Anamoka has changed um I'm really curious to hear um about the evolution of Sandbox. So you said it started as this 2D game and and now it's more than 12 years old. Uh 2018 you you see how NFTTS and how uh ERC20 tokens, fungeible tokens can be used to empower creators and users of the game. What was the thought process like in 2018 thinking, okay, we're going to go full 3D. We're going to make this an immersive world that people can be a part of. Was that a difficult kind of conversation to have or were you already at an inflection point where you you and your team were thinking we need to upgrade the game and really bring it in to the 2020s? So we we were more at that inflection point because like what we realized is like um a lot of like people who started uh like playing video games like they started in the '9s in the 2000 and there was like no more nostalgia for 2D pixel art game. There are people who are grown up with 3D console right from the start. So like there's no appeal to 2D game for them. Uh and so like the the market for like retro style 8bit 16 bit pixel arts game is like a shrinking niche market whereas like uh well people are just now accustomed to 3D casual games. We had a lot of um what we saw as well is like uh when we started sandbox originally like we were Minecraft was not on mobile but then after of course Minecraft started to come to mobile. So like we kind of lost a little bit like the benefit of like being this 2D Minecraft on mobile and we were also missing one very important element um like the multiplayer aspect like we never succeeded to put sandbox 2D as a multiplayer game. And so we thought like like well it makes sense to multiplayer game like the viral factor is way greater because if you like a game you're more likely to invite your friends to play with you. So the user the cost of user acquisition decrease if you for every single user who enjoy the game he invites three other friends to play with him. So although the economics made more sense and so uh we felt like it was the right time to start a new version of the game and to do it with with at the core the integration of blockchain NFTs and token allows us as well to incorporate the uh economic part where like uh we didn't have like an inflated economy full of like virtual currencies and uncapped supply of like game items that we don't even have a a proper tracking. of like how many we sold and how many are in circulation among all the devices and trackers um um and users sorry and building it from scratch. building not just a game but a platform that comprise a 3D editor, a no code game maker, a marketplace, a map and the game client was interesting and um we've did we've done so we built it we launched around 20 the end of 2018 the first version of our vaual editor the end of 2018 the first version of game maker uh 2019 our first land sale 2020 the sun token Uh and then from now from there on like we had a lot of updates from the game maker tool to increase possibilities to enable more multiplayer gameplay, people to make their own rules, better graphic, better loading time and so on and like the version that maybe maybe most people played of Sandbox in the 202122 specifically if they entered with a boom of NFTs and metaverse. It's it's so different with what Sandbox is today. um in term of fun in term of like all the possibilities that the metaverse give you in term of social interaction and so on uh and so sometime I wish like ah like of course it's six it's four years later like of course but how do we get them interested again to come and check it out and so on so right now we have this alpha season 6 um we've been obviously it's like almost six year once a year we run a season we feature a lot of brands cool brands all together for several weeks and people can explore and progress through a battle pass to earn different rewards. In this season we have Susle, Smurf, Terminator, Picking Blinder, Jurassic World, Kazio G-Shock, um, Black Mirror, Chupaces, lot of cool brand to play and interact into their universe. earn exclusive NFT reward and even build your own games with this um cool abilities for avatars, multiplayer, player versus player, team versus team, um game plays, persistency of your progression. So, a lot of thing that the coy also and the creditors ask us to add over time. &gt;&gt; I have a quick question. So, um, you you've kind of used Minecraft as like the competitor to what Sandbox is. And for maybe like a millennial boomer like myself who's never played Minecraft, maybe somebody doesn't understand what like this world is like and the the world creation process and just being able to explore a 3D world and build as you go. So can you just like really high level Eli 5 like the gameplay style of the sandbox and what this kind of like buildand go 3D world is what are the ways in which people can play within it. Yeah. So so one of the greatest revolution of Minecraft was like uh you build your own world into which you evolve. So you go you collect resource you craft them based on recipes. Um, and so people could even host their own servers to make their own rules. And people started to spend nights, days, and weekends to start rebuilding the real world in Minecraft. A little bit like a box of Legos, and people start to make amazing things with them. So, we had people who rebuilt the whole country of Denmark all together on one server. We had people that uh uh like recreated like a giant library of Alexandria and and great monument and landmarks of the world and so on uh in Minecraft which by itself became like a performance and it's a collaborative performance you like to create like you like to build um and then the game play wasn't so difficult. It was really essentially building and putting blocks together, but that required like the crafting time and resource which is an an effort. Um, and in sandbox as well like you could play with the physical elements a lot of physic or you can just build your own levels and world and play into them or share them into an online gallery for other to discover, explore and rate. Uh so very strong uh common element for this category of game called like sandbox games which is like a generic category name where like basically the game play is made by the players themselves and the content is made by the players themselves. But Minecraft provided a level of freedom and an extreme minimalism in the core the the original gameplay of what it is down to the essence of it which is like let's build the world and let's explore and play together. Uh, and so like a lot of games started to copy Minecraft in the graphic style and the aesthetic and they added their own like hey I'm a like a a blocky block because like the aspect of like Minecraft a blockbased first person shooter or I'm a blockbased like u I don't know car racing game and so on and so that's why you start to see a lot of like copycats and clones that became successful uh or or not actually some actually shut down but the only that remains still on Minecraft today. They celebrated I think it's 15 anniversary last year. Um and it it was a game that like promoted as well a lot of like positive value in education around and was adopted early on by kids. Kids enjoyed it as their like digital playground to build together with their friends. schools use Minecraft to teach mathematic and science and physics and a lot of other great materials from the like the curriculum. Um and and it became a tool of expression as well and so it really shaped a generation which are now used to like more um to to basically customize more their experience within games. And for me that that kind of led to like where I see the future of gaming going which is like 100% user generated content. I don't see a game where like players cannot change the rules, cannot change the character, cannot change the world, cannot customize the items, cannot sell themsel their creation in the marketplace where there's not an economy that can revolve around like the contribution from the players as creators. Um and and um and and well now like I guess if you're not familiar with Minecraft as a generation, I guess Roblox is kind of like what kind of took a little bit of a Minecraft. It has more of like the social network aspect as well, but people can also learn coding and make their own games on Roblox. Um I think they just surpassed the 100 million plus active daily users which like a fantastic took them over 15 years as well to reach that. So like definitely a long uh grind I would say until like they surpassed Minecraft in number of players and became the market leader now. &gt;&gt; Mhm. Yeah. The my favorite block paced blockbased game which recently lost its developers was conquer strike. It was a first player shooter that was clearly built off of the open- source ethos of block pace block- based um landscapes and and 3D worlds. Um, so thank you for kind of like delving into that history and background of of how Minecraft and and Roblox kind of made a foundation for Sandbox to kind of launch in web 3. Um, before you explained these basics, you also brought up um a timeline and you mentioned that you launched the LAN token in in 2018. you launched the first version of the game in in 2018 as well. Um, and this was an era for people who weren't around back then. That was a very deep and dark bare market. And so, you've had the experience of building in the darkest of times, seeing this crazy amount of support and use just three years later. And now you're in a place where you're you're asking the the class of 2021, hey, come back and test the game. This is completely different than what you remember. So, I guess maybe what are some of the lessons that you've you've learned or that you've gleaned from launching a product in 2018 when the appetite for probably buying a new NFT might not have been there. Um, to going to a place where like this was a $6.8 8 billion market cap project that was part of like the blue chips of gaming. And I remember everybody talking about having gaming tokens in their portfolios. Um, and now being in a place where you're like, hey, we have all these great brands and we have a different type of game, but our user base isn't the same as it was in 2018 or 2021. What are just like some of the lessons that you you've gleaned over the years? because I think a lot of people are going to be in your position in 2 3 5 6 years where they're going to have gone through these crazy waves of um support and users and then grinding through bare markets, &gt;&gt; right? Well, one of the first lessons is like basically even if we are building like a user generated content creation tool or or game like we were not like we didn't launch it without content and we didn't launch it in a way like hey okay this is a great tool for you to start creating you know what let's start like basically we had those soft launch period where we understood like who's going to be our uh original like uh core audience. In the case of like the mobile game uh when we did the soft launch in 2012, we worked with over 100 pixel artists which are like people whose job is to make 2D pixel art for various purpose like graphic magazines and so on. and we contact them and say look we're making one of the first pixel art game like we want you to use it to and we'll pay you 10 or $20 for every drawing you'll do and you'll share and we did that until we had a thousand content uh available on the marketplace made by the most talented pixel artists in the world who were excited to test a new tool get paid for it and like for us collect a lot of feedback to improve the product as well as when we launch have something fantastic to showcase for inspiring ing orders and we applied the same recipe in 2018. We had this 3D editor, the Vox edit. Uh there was already a market leader tool called Magika Vauil that a lot of people were using to do Vauel art. They were sharing every day over social media with a hashtag called Vauil dailies their creation. So they like to really showcase and network and be part of the community because of that. And we approached them and said, "Look, we're making a tool that allows you to do vaualor, but also to animate it." And that's the exciting feature that's different from Magika Vauel. We all love you to try, we'll pay you 30, $40 back then uh per model like it takes you one hour, two hour maybe to do, you could do x00 for us. We'll showcase it obviously. And we love your feedback. and you know by by the way we pay you and you keep all the ownership of your creation and you have the right to sell it on the marketplace when we launch it. And so that was a great strategy and like a lot of Volksw artist one thing that's terrible in the game industry is like the most creative people the artists are actually the underpaid the most underpaid people of like like the whole industry. So they're always that's why like most of the time like creative artist they're always like trying to do multiple job multiple gigs looking for side revenue that they could earn from their skills and so they they had a great appetite for that and that's how like many of the first um content creator on Sandbox came in early they made Vauo and then they love the idea of making their own games without having to talk to a developer and so on using their content. uh and that allows us to showcase a tool in action with a lot of great content already. And then to accelerate that, we also introduce a first like creator fund back then. I think once we had raised funds with $1 million to attract even more people to use our game maker tool and um at Vox edit and keep showing and and there's something that's very um that's true like basically you um when you arrive to a tool or marketplace and you see great content it keep inspiring and that's more of mouth. So there is kind of like snowball effect of like if you showcase one category of things with your creation tool, it will attract more and more of that category. And so the fact that we picked ourself initially like creators as a core audience helped us to attract more creators. And because creators saw like oh I heard from other creator that they are getting paid that is cool software and like I can sell my content on the marketplace. It was really a positive feedback loop and credit to and position us among the first and then um when we introduce a concept of lands people also like virtual artists they have familiarity with Minecraft many of them were actually doing things in Minecraft because of again like they were all playing with blocks right so they they enjoyed the idea of I can make my own game now and uh I need a lands that they start to get interested into lands so when When we did the first land sale, they they sold out entirely in a few minutes or half an hour back in the day. That was exciting. And we didn't even have our token. It was not listed. But it proved that we have user for our tools. We had users and demand for the NFT we were selling because the right value proposition and match. And it proved that uh then we could go and talk to the exchanges and instead of being in a situation where like well exchange are big and they have all the leverage say look we have a fantastic and engaged community who's already spending who spent literally hundred to thousand of dollars and time participating and they are ready to join for the first time a crypto exchange if you list us and that actually inverted the balance and make it more interesting and allow us to releas um on the Binance launchpad in 2000 August 2020 um and then afterwards on two more exchanges and so I think it's not about chasing the big number the big community over Twitter over uh Telegram. I don't think we've we've been that great at like always like the community and the hype, but we've been better at delivering like real experience, real product and focusing on like the core audience that enjoy um by playing around with what we launched. &gt;&gt; Very cool. Um, at the risk of maybe opening a can of worms, do you have any insights into the retention of users that that bought those first land NFTts and how many of them are still here today? Is it like 5%? Is it 30%? How many like hardcore sandbox users have you been able to keep playing on a day-to-day or week- toeek basis since you guys rebranded into the web 3 realm? &gt;&gt; Oh wow. So that's that one has been a pretty challenging I would say like as soon as we moved from uh mobile to PC first of all for even not taking into account the web 3 part we knew that well we already addressing different potentially different audience. So the fact that we move from a 2D mobile game to a 3D PCbased and then PC and Mac based version that was a gap. The second thing is like um now so so it was difficult to conver convert even though we had 40 million installs like we never promise we'll bring 40 million users to the PC version but we knew that that was unrealistic. The second thing is um many of the land owners we found they are the most engaged uh participant into our ecosystem. uh they are creating they are playing and we are still seeing that today like we have launched the alpha season 6 and among the the players of the alpha season 6 I've seen like a good percentage of them are actually like land owners so that made me um very happy and I understand like why like they are in looking for inspiration for their own land they also potentially want to earn some of their rewards to And because they have also like they built something on their own land, it creates an additional attachment to the platform. Like the personal commitment you put into it is even higher. Uh people who just who never played or never built but maybe they got the token. We we we also have that audience obviously. Um and and we had more of that audience when like there was more hype in the market, people who were buying NFT more for the speculative aspect than necessarily for the interest in those games. Uh but souls tend to come and go over time or or if they're still holders like they're not active users, right? Um, &gt;&gt; I'm curious. Do you I work in in an ecosystem that I work in the NEO ecosystem and that was like the darling coin of 2017 and 18. And now today for a lot of long-term ecosystem participants um because the price is down and you know when when token price is down everybody's at fault. There's a lot of negativity and a lot of negative sentiment. Do you find that you are running into this issue as well with long-term participants or because a lot of your land holders are also creators that maybe they don't necessarily pay too much attention to the price, they're still enjoying the process of building and creating and participating. I guess are you do you have a lot of like negative sentiment that you run into on a day-to-day basis or does the positivity of creation and creativity outweigh that? &gt;&gt; Well, it's I I wish it was as magical as that. Yes, [laughter] we we do have very very good genuine passion, creative people, Sanfam members. Some of them came again when we announced Sunshine in October 1st in Singapore. So I've been really happy to meet and see people who've been with us for four or five years sometimes more. Um but I also understand like the price and the price sentiment create a negative sentiment. It's hard to fight against certain wave and misconception. So when start the narrative started to be around like metaverse is dead and like there's no players in in those virtual worlds or like the price of the token itself moved from $17 to $1 and at 0.3 0.2 today. Uh I wouldn't call it depressing but I would call like it's um it's difficult you know and that affect the mo everybody's motivation the motivation of your team members who probably wereum when you use a token as well as an incentive to reward for participation in the network or the project. uh by you certain just like creators like the financial aspect is an essential part of your motivation you cannot just remove it from it so so I understand that it's difficult I understand that some people figure out that like they could have better things to do of their time or it was not just worth the economical equation wasn't worth like going on in that ecosystem anymore Um where is more difficult is like when a lot of the project from the 2020 21 are no longer here they are no longer building you don't meet the founders still there um you don't feel like there's and it it is challenging it is difficult the market will go up and down like it's always easier to surf the top of the wave and see we are the best of the world where like everything is easy. It's much harder to say we're still here and building when everything is hard. But I do think like commitment pays off. And I hear a lot of people that say, "But why are you still still here and building? You could have retired 10 times if you wanted." And said, "No, no, like I don't think I achieve the mission. Like we still have a lot to build. Um like my my goal is like not just yeah I want million of people to be creator and to make a living from being content creator on sandbox and outside and so I'm uh um I feel like we have a lot more solution to offer um and that it's um every major disruption and I was mentioning even before it took 15 years to Roblox to become the leader They will not be done in two or three years. They will be done in more likely 10 years, sometimes more. Um there's never like overnight success. Even if sometimes the narrative will would like to make you think so like it's easy and it can be overnight and so on. But no, like so far no success came overnight. Um it's always been like it's a overnight success with 10 years in the making and some iteration and some failures and steps in the middle. And I believe like I we have a unique opportunity with Sandbox that even if I started something from scratch like would take me again 10 years to rebuild such a strong brand a strong potential project a token that's a top 100 listed globally recognized known um and such a fantastic community and so I prefer definely to keep building and adding value So that's why like I'm sure we'll talk about Sunshine like um the next phase for Sandbox is to not is to start empowering creators in different ways and just like making them build virtual world experiences because I think like all the experience we accumulated and everything we represent and stand for is also applicable to content creator on YouTube, on Twitch, on Instagram, even on Fortnite and Roblox. They we're all struggling with the same challenges of like discoverability, engaging our audience, monetizing, having access to financing and then being seeing our activity being recognized in the broader physical world as some legitimate activity from which we can make a living. I think a lot of people who've been building in web 3 for as long as you have um have experienced the kind of pitfalls and the negativity that comes with the waves of sentiment. So I know for a fact that many many other people are in your shoes and share similar positions, but I 100% agree that taking the long-term vision and continuing to build day in and day out regardless of if you're at the top of the wave or at the bottom is clearly the way forward. And so I'm excited to talk about what the Sandbox ecosystems next step is with um Sand Chain. And really what's super exciting and interesting is that Sandchain is an L2. And the Sandbox felt that in order to be able to create to feed this creator economy that Sandchain was the way to do it. And I love this quote that was that was that you had in decrypt which said the real value no longer lies in the base infrastructure which is increasingly commoditized but in how we differentiate whom we serve and how we enable meaningful use cases. So now I'd like to talk a little bit about Sandhain. Why is it why is now the time to move off of Ethereum and to not leverage Ethereum as kind of like the pushing force for Sandbox? What was like the moment that you and your team said now's the time we build Sand Chain? &gt;&gt; Well, you you just like you said like I think like Ethereum is a fantastic general purpose layer one chain. it's here to stay and like become like really the the layer for all the side chains. But like the network you're building on needs to support your growth and we say like in web 3 like network effects are very important like that's how like you bootstrap community and you build. But the realization we had is like well uh we we work very hard to bring new users to web 3. Those users they entered Polygon and Ethereum as a chain. But what did really Polygon or Ephum did for us? Like when did they go out there and promote actively Sandbox among all the other project and for them it didn't really matter if we were like the number one uh revenue source sometimes on some days for like having the most popular NFT collection of land or avatar being minted on their chains because they look under a different perspective. And so that really led us to think like well like first the user experience is not great because they have to buy a second token and we have to explain them what is this chain that they need to buy a token from. then like um it the the chain itself could be slow and even polygon at some time was really under heavy load and like that affected the per our own performance and ultimately like even though we they didn't do nothing obviously like the efforts were overall limited into like how they could support our activity specifically and sometimes the chain doesn't have like gamers per se or creators so like even if they bring user they will not necessarily bring bring the right kind of user. So we went there and we back to the drawing board and like we thought okay like how to best support our custom well we need to have our own side chain and a side chain that support our own token and the fact that if we bring users um well those users can flow within that ecosystem. And so the first thing we looked from a side chain perspective was like that sand token will become the gas token for the chain. Then that already restricted the parimeter of like which side chain we could work on. And then we look at which side chain was actually already live in production battle tested because we cannot wait for it to go to test net maybe eventually and be delayed one more year. Um, and so, um, that's something I wanted to, um, but after a few months of looking into like ZKYNC really came out as like the main, uh, partner of choice to build the Sunshine with a high transaction speed, the support for our own token as a gas fee, and uh, many other benefits such as like having a roll up as a service providers, which uh, in this case, Caldera which allows us to actually abstract the complexity of building the infrastructure so we can focus more on like let's leverage our ecosystem and build something and bring the content and the audience instead. So that's what we did. Uh we had a lot of uh interest obviously since we launched the sunshine. I think today we have more than 100,000 signature already of our manifesto. The test net went live last week. Uh we have some quests ongoing where people can start earning their own send points. Um and um I'm really excited to try to build a solution that focus on the content creator. When we looked at the space of side chain, we didn't see a lot that focus in that vertical. We see a lot of gaming chain obviously and and I felt like we're not a gaming chain. We we've been really if you look at the whole history of sandbox it's all been and always been about the creators. If they could create a 3D world game for the first time, that's fantastic. That's a great on boarding for many people like me. In my teenage days, I always wanted to make my own game. But we shouldn't also like restrict them into like, hey, the only way for you to be a content creator is to make a 3D virtual world based game or to be on sand for a brand to be on sandbox is to open an experience on the map. There is many ways at Sandbox with our strong brand, our partnership and our tokens and community we could help you and before we our approach actually also restrain us to many ways we could partner with brand whereas with what the the value proposition for chain is like loyalty as value every interaction being on chain having loyalty points on chain that can be swapped for sand point or credit points and eventually for and or launching your own creator token. I do think that it's enabling a whole new layer for content creator to monetize, to engage, to grow their audience. And that's where I'm excited about because it comes not as a replacement. It comes as an expansion of what people were able to do before in Sandbox, but it's not restricted only to Sandbox. It's appealing to a much larger audience. &gt;&gt; Yeah. And congratulations on TestNet. Um the the latest stat that I looked at was more than 25k addresses that participated and more than 138k transactions um in less than a month. That's fantastic. There's there's clearly a a market hunger there. Um, as we kind of like zoom out and and start to wrap up, I think one of the super impressive feats other than just surviving in blockchain for eight plus years, um, are the the caliber and the magnitude of the partnerships that Sandbox has been able to establish. So can you just share some nuggets of gold for how web 3 builders projects can go out there and really make the most of themselves and establish these relationships? What are some key ways in which you can build effective partnerships? Well, like at the core, you have to think like always when we try to approach a partnership and I I I saw a lot of those and like let's just announce something without a real ground behind and I I kind of like force myself and sandbox like let's not do that like because basically like what are we announcing exactly? What is a product? Keep in mind I'm an engineer by background. I'm a product guy. uh build products. I want to know like exactly what's out of like what's just been announced. So you the way we approach partnership is we try to understand first like what can we bring ourself as a solution to the partner and then like okay and so what like that's the number one question after you should read something you ask yourself so what like did I understood what they meant uh do I understand where to click and what can I do and so if you fail that test to the simple question is like so what like then it's not meaningful and shouldn't happen but If you understand like what is a value ad like what people will feel and see as a journey as they click into a link go to a page or download an app and get into a product and get for benefit then it should happen. So as we grow beyond as as Sandchain launches and we grow beyond just simply looking at it as an L2 for gaming ecosystem really wants to support the creator economy. What are some of the broader initiatives that you and your team are going to be pushing? Who are the different types of builders and creators you want to see coming onto the chain and building within the ecosystem? So ideally we wish to be a place that gathers and aggregate a lot of like creator focused solution whether is related to like launchpads decks uh IP monetization IP tokenization royalties uh we don't intend to rebuild all of those by ourself and become a competitor with other I prefer like if there's other solution out there on other chain even on bay on like why don't just add sunshine to your multi-chain strategy and like let's make let's be the place where content creator if we attract and we appeal to them going back to this idea the more creators you have in one place the more it appeals to more creators as well um that we can offer and gather all our solutions. So some of the value proposition for sunshine is to build loyalty program um with quest and action. We also wanted to enable like uh crypto payment for content creator as in advance over over future recoupable that they would receive by a wire transfer from Google ads, YouTube and so on. And then we found oh there's already solution out there people who tried to build it. So instead of like competing with them, let's partner with them and let's help them to grow with sunshine. So maybe they can help more creators. And that's also one way I look at it is like I I always believe in web 3 that the market is still too small for us to compete. So we should have on the opposite like think like how we grow the market for all of us by supporting each other, speaking together, inviting other people who are trying to do kind of like the same thing or or address the same problem uh to present and and and that mindset led me as well to become the president of the blockchain game alliance and support blockchain gaming u explaining the benefit of blockchain technology within the broader video game industry to support the whole blockchain gaming industry. uh that led me to have as OBI like a digital art gallery in Paris and support artists and digital artists and be all the actors into that ecosystem and uh here like my approach is like again any solution that's focused on helping content creator like we should join forces we should um see how we like we can bring more value and more creators from the part and I'm not here to try to um say oh you know what we'll build everything ourself and we'll be the leader for a content creator it's it's always going to be a fragmented market you were into the NEO ecosystem back in the day now like there's so many different blockchains out there um we're not trying to be a killer L1 of whatever no we are like a very simple and friendly side chain L2 that wants to help and and I hope that with this mentality and like with the network that we have of brands of investors of partners we'll be able to be attractive and efficient as a solution to solve that problem &gt;&gt; and for anyone who hasn't yet done so um I take I I suggest taking a peek into the blockchain gaming alliance game alliance and also take a peek into artverse they're game gaming and art are two very great use cases is for NFTTS and I think they're phenomenal um verticals to delve into. So I guess Seb last question wrapping up everybody on crypto Twitter's favorite question when mainnet uh I'm being a little cheeky. Um what are what are kind of like the next steps for for Sanchain? &gt;&gt; Yes, good question. Um so we just rolled out the test net uh the builder kit with our partner sequence which offering like a very uh seamless solution to onboard users with account abstraction and many other feature just went live as well. So you can go to build.sson.com sunshine.com uh to get started there like we're starting already to see a lot of first integration happening uh test net we're jering toward Q1 2026 um we'll open it as early as we can as we hopefully see people like bring um um by we have sufficient like volume of transaction for testing users and like we feel like okay now let's push a big button there's no way back. That's main net and uh and we'll have more like we'll have probably launchpads introduce decks and a lot of other uh great products. So, and we'll launch various initiative to attract those builders as well. Um yeah, that's an exciting road map for the next coming weeks and months. &gt;&gt; Awesome. Well, best of luck on the forthcoming mainet launch. Um, and for anyone who's interested in building in Sand Chain, um, you've you just heard the link to go to. I hope to run into you in Buenosidis for Dev Connect. So, I'll be keeping my ears to the ground for events that you're speaking at or that you're hosting. And I want to thank you so much for taking the time to join the Smart Economy podcast today. &gt;&gt; Thank you. And well, see you on Sunshine. Cheers. Thank you for tuning in to the Smart Economy podcast. To stay in the loop with all of our latest episodes and insights, head over to www.smarteconomyodcast.com. And don't forget to subscribe to our YouTube channel for all of our video content. If you enjoyed this discussion, please consider showing your support by liking, commenting, and reviewing this episode on your favorite podcasting platform. Your feedback helps us reach more listeners and bring even better content your way. We'd also love to hear from you. So, please drop a comment on Spotify or YouTube to share what topics you'd like us to cover or who you'd like to see as our next guest. And if you or someone you know might make for a great guest, please don't hesitate to reach out. We're always on the hunt for fresh voices and new perspectives. And for our NEO token holders out there, please consider voting for NEON News Today as your council representative. We've proudly been serving the NEO ecosystem since 2017, and we'll continue to do so by putting portions of our council rewards directly back into ecosystem growth initiatives. With all of that said, we cannot wait to catch you next time.