Unlike traditional blockchains that are really general purpose blockchains that force everyone into a single pipe, Avalanche operates more like a highway system with infinitely scalable lanes. And so Bitcoin gave us one blockchain with one asset. Ethereum, Salana, Polygon offered one blockchain with many assets. Avalanche takes a different approach with many blockchains and many assets. Hey everyone, welcome to the Smart Economy podcast where we ask your favorite builders the questions you wish you could ask yourself. This is a production of neonnewstoday.com and I'm your host Dylan Grabowski. In this episode, we're joined by Olivia Van Wood, the head of tokenization at AVA Labs, the team that built and maintains the Avalanche blockchain. In this conversation, we discussed how blockchain technology improves the costs associated with real world assets, revenue driving strategies that blockchain enables, the avalanche ecosystem and its rampant growth in onchain RWAS, why TVL is the northstar metric, what everyone gets wrong about tokenization, and so much more. Just a reminder, nothing said on this podcast is a solicitation to buy or sell any tokens and that the guest or host might hold tokens discussed in any given episode. You can check out a full disclaimer at www.newtoday.com. If you enjoyed this episode, please don't hesitate to rate and review it on your favorite podcasting platform and share it with friends and family. Every rate, review, like, and comment helps us reach more people and bring you more of your favorite guests. With all that said, I really enjoyed this conversation with Olivia. And I hope you enjoy it, too. Hey everyone, welcome to the Smart Economy podcast. Today, we're joined by Olivia Vanderwood, the head of tokenization at Avalabs, the firm that built and maintains the Avalanche blockchain. Olivia, how we doing today? &gt;&gt; Doing great. Thank you so much for having me on, Dylan. &gt;&gt; Yeah. Um, this is a fun interview because you kind of hunted us down off of Twitter and I did. &gt;&gt; Yeah, it was serendipitous because Avalanche is kind of like one of these chains that's quietly been onboarding and tokenizing and and getting Tradfi onto the chain into the ecosystem and it's kind of like an up into the right manner slowly over the past year or so. So, it's really cool to be chatting with you. So, I appreciate you hunting us down. It's very much appreciated. Yeah, thank you. And multiple platforms, Twitter, LinkedIn, all of them. Well worth it. &gt;&gt; Yes. And before we jump into everything, I do have to ask, are are you still writing poetry? &gt;&gt; I am. I haven't been asked that. That's such a such a nice question to start off with. Yes, I am. I am still writing poetry. Um I was a liberal arts major and uh that still holds true to many aspects of my life. So yeah, still very inter multi multid-disciplinary in that way. &gt;&gt; Do you use it uh writing poetry to kind of um let go of some of the steam sometimes that might build up working in the crypto space? &gt;&gt; Some of the steam you know actually it's it's quite a it's more meditative or or centering. So obviously I mean with all of us being on Twitter and number of platforms uh and the number of dopamine hits that we get per day being online all the time, it's nice to unplug and um focus, you know, on one idea or one one object and uh write about it. So I use it more as a as a way of centering myself. &gt;&gt; Who are some of your inspirations? Who got you into poetry? &gt;&gt; Oh yeah. Um this might be a more obscure name, but Edna St. Vincent Malay, very famous um female main poet, Emily Dickinson, of course, Robert Frost, Robert Lel, a range of them. Hard to pick just one. &gt;&gt; Awesome. Cool. So, what was um what's your genesis story with with Bitcoin and Ethereum? A common theme for guests on the pod, and this is my arc as well, is like first you hear about it, then you ignore it, then you look at it again, and then you laugh, and then the third time you're like, "What was I thinking 5 years ago? I should have gotten into this. &gt;&gt; Do you have a similar sort of arc? &gt;&gt; I I do. Um I'd say really the seed was planted when I was in college. One of my friends launched a tokenized real estate project. Coincidentally, and and by the way, I like I said was a liberal arts major. I double major in history and French, wrote my honors thesis on child witches of the Spanish Inquisition. So that doesn't exactly scream tokenization. But fortunately, one of my friends, like I said, launched a tokenized real estate project. And at the time he told me, "You should really read this book or guide. It's called Crypto Assets by Chris Bernki." And I did just out of intellectual curiosity. And I was drawn to a number of things, but including his framing of Bitcoin scarcity, hard cap of 21 million units, supply inflation having every four years, mathematically more scarce than gold. And I just started building positions on my own. And I while I had considered a path of academia, I uh also realized the reality of college college loans looming. So uh as I was looking for potential job positions, I stumbled across equity research um and then ended up at Tro Price Group on an equity desk and my conviction in Bitcoin only deepened there. I was covering small and midcap bank stocks there and ended up developing a fluency in balance sheet dynamics, credit intermediation and the regulatory architecture that really shapes capital formation and I also saw firsthand how legacy if not cobalt based infrastructure can create a drag on markets that you know move in milliseconds everywhere else. So um that friction of seeing correspondent banking, T plus2 settlement, fragmented custody, cobalt based core systems upfront, that friction really made and became the the investment case. And so when I joined my team at TRO in around 2020, the team asked me to publish thought leadership on on DeFi and blockchain just because they knew of my own interest and they wanted to understand more of the implications for regional bank stocks that we were investing in and the timing was really ideal. If you flip back to that era and the the time that I was at my previous firm, NYCB was, you know, minting USDF on Provenence blockchain. Acting controller Brian Brooks had just established that banks could hold cryptographic keys for customers. I think at the time, Tacet had also launched the digital interbank network. And so there was a lot going on that that had ramifications for the likes of Signature Bank, customers bank, Western Alliance that were, you know, considering tokenized dollar deposits on on the platform. And so that you know that experience made me into more of a thought leader internally. Um I got to know the JAM FinTop team as well. And so I was covering that that cohort of banks um that was involved with a lot of these blockchain adjacent and related initiatives and just out of the spirit of of intellectual curiosity went down the proverbial rabbit hole. I know is is offused and ended up you know working with the Shefi team doing uh actually I've done that course a few times now that really accelerated my technical ramp on more of the tokconomics modeling smart contract mechanics and and DeFi protocol architecture side and so got really excited on the the technical side and then Tro ended up launching a digital assets working group and so I got to translate more of what I was seeing in my coverage universe into internal research on you know where blockchain rails could compress margins or disintermediate middlemen and and restructure value chains. And coincidentally, in in 2023, I also had a front row seat when the firm joined Avalanch's Spruce Test net and that was alongside Wellington, Wisdom Tree, Cumberland, and that was to test onchain FX swaps, interest rate derivatives, and and atomic settlement on permission rails. And so that was really incredible to see institutional grade participants, you know, executing test trades that settled in seconds, counterparty risk collapsing to near zero. And I got to know Morgan Ketsky who leads out our onchain finance team now. Uh she was leading that initiative at Avalabs and I knew I wanted to work with her. And so flash forward, joined Avalabs about a year and a half ago to help build out the tokenization pipeline myself uh working with the supply side of the equation. So think top tier issuers like BlackRock, Van, Franklin Templeton, Apollo, KKR that are bringing assets onto the Avalanche blockchain network. And then I've also been very laser focused on the demand side of that equation. So working with fintexs that have an appetite for products like stable coin yield products or you know tokenized US equities infrastructure from our partners including Open Trade or Dinari. And I've also been very focused on cultivating our network of allocators. So ranging from VC funds to liquid funds that may have an appetite for DeFi strategies or RWAS or RWBA looping strategies for example within the Avalanche ecosystem. And so very excited about the demand or distribution side of the equation and and building that out within our ecosystem. &gt;&gt; Wow. So much to unpack there. One of the the things that kind of um when we started the pod in 2022, one of the first kind of themes of conversations we were having was with third parties that were working alongside Trifi. Um maybe they were under NDA and some of the conversations were along the lines of the big guys are secretly building on chain, you just don't know how or what. So during your time at at Tro were maybe at like happy hours or with your industry peers, were you were you talking with folks about tokenization andor um maybe ways in which the likes of like Fidelity was doing Bitcoin and Ethereum mining? Were there kind of like largecale institutions that were talking about how they were entertaining the idea of blockchain or maybe even experimenting with blockchain or was that something that kind of really took off in the past couple years? Yeah, I mean I would say at the time of the test net that I just mentioned that was 2023 that was done in in uh close collaboration with the likes of Wellington, wisdom tree, Cumberland and other initiatives that Avalanche has worked on have been under MAS or monetary authority uh of Singapore's project guardian which also brings together other um heavy hitters in terms of institutions. So I would agree that many of the institutions have been working on this for a long time. You just mentioned Fidelity. Um that's a case in point of of an institution that's you know got hundreds of folks working on their various blockchain initiatives. Franklin Templeton has also been at the forefront u especially with their their Benji or tokenized money market fund having launched several years ago now um and really started a trend of of tokenized money market funds um by you know other asset managers and the the really wave of tokenization that that followed. So yes definitely have seen institutions working on this for some time. I mean if you look back at 2017 2018 you could also refer to the more enterprise chains that were around at the time building on Hyperledger Basu or the R3s of the world and um obviously that was a different landscape just as they were working in more private permissioned instances but uh certainly has been a a long history of of institutions um participating or at least experimenting with uh with blockchain technology and excite in a very exciting turn of events that's only accelerated in the last year or So &gt;&gt; yeah. So what would you say is kind of the the key trend that moved institutions away from the corporate chains, the the private chains, um the R3s, the hyperledgers, and what made them see the merits of open decentralized public blockchain networks? This really comes as no surprise but you know regulatory clarity has certain has certainly helped quite a bit um in the last year especially in terms of institutions being um willing to participate more in in the space. The regulatory clarity has has invited more institutional participation. Um, I'd say though at this point what's really exciting too is, you know, at the end of the day when I think about whether it's an enterprise or an institution looking into blockchain technology, what they're most excited about is on the one hand cost efficiency, but then also on the other hand, you know, novel revenue streams that would justify them putting R&amp;D or or resources at large into implementing blockchain technology. And so um I think much of the innovation that's occurred in DeFi and blue chip DeFi protocols like Ave or Morpho or you know the the other borrow lend protocols that um have really proven um the cost efficiencies and also novel novel you know revenue opportunities and capabilities has really drawn the attention of of institutions and Morpho is a great example of that. I mean, they've been they've been partnering with um you know, pretty large names and and institutions. Just last week, they announced a a partnership with Bitwise, for example, that's a $15 billion asset manager um that will be now doing vault creation through Morpho. And so, that that trend's only set to accelerate as as other institutional players see the merits of of vault infrastructure as well. Mhm. And so as we kind of um come from the 10,000 foot level down to earth, what's the sort of relationship between Ava Labs and Avalanche today? &gt;&gt; And I I'd love to explain to what what Avalanche is in the first place. So for those of you hey who may be less familiar with the ecosystem, Avalanche is a blockchain platform that enables any business to build customized blockchain infrastructure based on their particular needs. And unlike traditional blockchains that are really general purpose blockchains that force everyone into a single pipe, Avalanche operates more like a highway system with infinitely scalable lanes. And so Bitcoin gave us one blockchain with one asset. Ethereum, Salana, Polygon offered one blockchain with many assets. Avalanche takes a different approach with many blockchains and many assets. So we have our public permissionless Cchain. It's fast, it's cheap, it's decentralized. But businesses can also add customized lanes that come in in different flavors. It could be private and permissioned chains for institutions that need strict compliance. It could be permission control with public use for enterprises and major organizations, or it could be public permissionless for open innovation. And so what makes this pretty powerful is that everything operates under one tent, if you will. So historical enterprise chains we were talking about earlier failed because they lived in silos. They were isolated databases without innovation or liquidity flowing in. In contrast, Avalanche connects institutions, governments, enterprises, and DeFi within the same network, allowing assets to move freely based on whatever their compliance requirements are. And so most blockchains will tell you, here's our solution. Now fit your business into our, you know, limits. Avalanche will on the other hand say how do we customize this technology for your business needs. Um we're really focused on building foundational infrastructure that supports businesses on their terms. So FIFA for example obviously a pretty well recognized sports organization with over 5 million fans selected Avalanche to power the FIFA blockchain. It's a custom layer 1 network that's designed to deliver digital collectibles and and next generation fan engagement at global scale. And so FIFA's decision, in my view, reflects the need for verifiable digital ownership and and direct engagement with massive audiences. And that's enabled by avalanches, sub-second transaction, finality, minimal fees, and and really resilience to network congestion even during high traffic events like World Cup matches. So that's what Avalanche is from an infrastructure perspective. What Avalabs is is the software development company that is supporting the growth and adoption of the Avalanche blockchain network. And so on the business development side, what that looks like in practice is really serving as a trusted advisor to enterprises or businesses that are looking to bring their activities existing activities onchain. Perhaps they want to unlock cost efficiencies as I mentioned or perhaps they want to unlock novel revenue streams by using blockchain infrastructure um you know as an underlying technology. And so we really serve as as trusted advisers to those projects. Perhaps it's an institution that's never touched blockchain. Perhaps it's, you know, an enterprise that has been doing test nets and maybe had an enterprise chain in 2018, but you know, wants to explore the Avalanche ecosystem and um access the assets within the avalanche ecosystem from VANC or Labber Wellington Management, KKR, Apollo and so on. We really meet those institutions where they are and um provide them with introductions to adjacent ecosystem partners that may be working on something similar or have used a similar blueprint in the past, we'll introduce them to our um tech enablement partners. So be it a tokenization platform like securitize or centrifuge or republic that's well integrated with avalanche or be it oracle providers um or anything in between we make the introduction so that uh the enterprises institutions you know aren't just left in the dust and and left to their own devices to figure out what um and how to most maximize their their onchain activities. So I think um one of the key themes for 2024 going into 25 and beyond was being in the room and there were only a handful of L2s or blockchain ecosystems that were in the room on Wall Street in the room with businesses having sort of BD like roles that were there to answer questions of large scale institutions. So when we look at like the blockchain and crypto space in general, there's all these L1s and L2s and and different types of ecosystems &gt;&gt; and it's difficult for an entity to kind of choose which chain to build on. &gt;&gt; Now I am a believer in being in the room is half the battle. So when you're out kind of pitching Avalanche or fielding calls, who are the kind of like other competitors maybe would be the best way to put it? What are the kind of like other folks that are in the room that you're kind of pitching against? &gt;&gt; Yeah, that's a really interesting question too because being a network of layer 1 blockchains, Avalanche doesn't have one single competitor. like I I think there are general purpose platforms that have made their made their name in payments or made their name in um you know consumer related activities and for for Avalanche that's there isn't one single focus necessarily um you can build an L1 like I said related to FIFA and and consumer enterprise applications there's um applications on Avalanche related to sports and loyalty programs um for example powering the Cleveland Cavs uh sports and loyalty platform uh through partners like Uptop or as I mentioned earlier on the onchain finance team, we've been working with the likes of Galaxy, you know, to bring their tokenized CLLO on chain. And in another example, we have a gaming vertical that's brought Nexon's Maple Story game onto Avalanche and as well as Off the Grid, which is a a first-person shooter game um onto Avalanche. And so really, we've been powering a range of applications. And so all that's to say it's it's hard to to you know name just one competitor but um you know certainly across the L1's and L2s you know all of them are competitors in some form or fashion. I would say where we differentiate um in terms of Avalabs is a you know we have the customizable infrastructure underpinning Avalanche and that enables our you know more embedded finance strategy within the onchain finance team that I sit on and so we partner with businesses that use Avalanche as their financial backbone to deliver tangible business outcomes and so our approach really helps businesses either make money through ne you know novel revenue streams or save money through operational ational efficiency by turning accounts into wallets or dollars into stable coins or yield into DeFi and loyalty points into tokens and so on. And that really does play out across several verticals where blockchain solves actual business problems. So to give you one example, we're working with companies that are rebuilding global payment infrastructure. One example is Axiom. AXIM. It's a regulated liquidity as a service platform. And so they enable money service businesses to send crossber payments without preunding accounts using stable coins and avalanche for real-time settlement. They're really proving how blockchain can power next generation payment infrastructure and at scale. Their set of competitors may be very different than the set of competitors that our other our other partners may face. So for you know just to give you another example in in the vein of the embedded finance strategy we've also been very active on the fintech and neoank side. So we're partnering with financial services companies that want to offer better products to their customers. So for example we work with a company called open trade excellent team that's providing yield as a service and taking a B2B approach of embedding with neo banks welltech platforms and other fintex uh platforms and their existing distribution bases. Importantly, so Colombia Neo Bank LIO for example leveraged Open Trade, which is on Avalanche to offer interestbearing USD accounts to local customers and again through Avalanche. And through Open Trade's RWA yield vaults, Lydio offered customers yield bearing savings pots as they're called, but with returns backed by US Treasury bills and really operating on proven infrastructure at scale um and reflecting the continued growth of of our onchain finance ecosystem. But all that's to say open trade has a different set of competitors than the payments infrastructure player axiom that I just mentioned. So uh really depends on on how you define you know avalanche's given vertical and and the given uh sets of of competitors. &gt;&gt; I I have a feeling that I already know what the answer to this question is going to be but I want to ask it anyways. And this was spurred by a conversation that I saw with &gt;&gt; I want to say it was Raul Paul in token 2049 in Dubai last year. &gt;&gt; And basically the theme of the conversation or maybe this was even just a segment but it just stuck in my head so much. And it was there were only two things that matter for blockchain metrics &gt;&gt; either users or TVL. Mhm. &gt;&gt; And so from your perspective, &gt;&gt; what do you think is more important or are there different use cases where the different metric matters? But when we're talking about TVL users, what's more attractive to a team that you're going out and trying to onboard onto Avalanche? &gt;&gt; Oh, that's a that's a an excellent question. And I would say also, you know, depends on on uh what specific blockchain application you're you're talking about. So um I would certainly say TVL is &gt;&gt; a northstar metric from from my perspective. It measures committed capital. So it represents assets that are actively deposited in smart contracts for lending for liquidity provisioning for yield generation etc. That really tells you how much capital is in fact productive on chain as opposed to just parked. And so on most chains, as I've observed, there's a three to five times gap between TVL and broader market cap of of assets present. Stable coins circulate for trading without, you know, touching lending protocols. And so in my view, you know, bridged assets can float without committing to DeFi. TVL captures assets that are actively working again, generating yield, backing loans. And in contrast, if you look at something like market cap, that captures everything that's showed up, whether it's it's doing anything or not. And so in in practice, I think a headline number bloated, you know, with with market cap, for example, can tell a very different story than than TVL. And I'd say I don't know to what extent you're familiar with RWA.xyz specifically, but that's most relevant to my my vertical. And so when I think about metrics that really matter, when someone asks how big is the tokenized asset market, the answer you get really depends on what you're counting. And most of the time people are counting what I viewed to be the wrong things. The the industry has spent years inflating headline numbers by lumping together assets that can actually, you know, do something on chain with assets that are just sitting in proprietary databases and wearing blockchain costumes. And that's changing now and the frameworks emerging to fix it matter for anyone that's trying to separate signal from the noise and as as you are. And so when I think about tokenized assets specifically, the metrics that matter depend on what you're actually trying to measure. And the the industry has historically conflated numbers that tell very different stories. And so if you go on rwa.xyz, XYZ, they have the distributed assets metric and that one in my opinion captures whether tokenization is really delivering on its core promise and these are tokenized assets again as RWA.XYZ defines them that can move to external wallets and transfer peer-to-peer meaning they can compose with DeFi infrastructure. They can serve as collateral and lending protocols. They can provide liquidity on dexes or they can plug into broader yield strategies. So when you think about USDC for example that can be deposited into a morpho vault curated by bitwise or used as collateral in a that's a distributed asset doing what tokenization is supposed to do and unlocking utility. So you know when an institutional fund tokenizes on a a private ledger and the tokens can't really leave the issuers platform or the tokens are just sitting there not gaining utility that's not the same thing. And in my opinion, lumping them together really inflates what's actually happening on chain. And so I really appreciated RWX RWA.XYZ for introducing this framework and really reclassifying data to separate as they call it distributed from represented assets. Um and you can see you could see I think it was late last year they they introduced the new metrics. the headline figure shrank for some, not because the market contract, you know, contracted, but because the industry finally got honest about what's actually movable and uh transferable. And if you look at Avalanch's breakdown at this point, there's about 630 million in distributed assets and and 715 million roughly in represented assets. And so that's a really good ratio in my opinion. And the distributed side, you know, includes Black Rockck's Bidd, Franklin Templeton's Benji, Janice Henderson's JA fund, Apollo's Acred, KKR's healthcare strategic growth fund, you know, assets that can and are moving to wallets and plugging into DeFi in some cases. And just one example is the institutional um credit allocator, Grove Finance. They deployed a 250 million target allocation into Avalanche ecosystem um and specifically into the centrifuge JA product that I just mentioned. And and that again is is a perfect example of what happens when distributed assets actually compose. It's programmable capital routing from Grove's allocation engine into institutional grade CLLOs's issued natively onchain. And so another example is, you know, Galaxy followed with a $50 million tokenized CLLO that was allocated through Grove. And so this really represents the ongoing convergence of DeFi, Tradfi, and and RWAS happening in real time um and and onchain um and that are actually, you know, seeing utility and um demand from the likes of Grove and other allocators. &gt;&gt; Yeah. And you mentioned uh Black Rockck's Biddle fund and I think maybe it was December or November last year, Black Rockck kind of distributed its Bittle Fund across multiple different chains. So now it's living on Avalanche. There's a a portion of the Biddle fund living on ETH L1 and a few other chains. And so when we're talking about composability, how easy is it now for me to just migrate a portion of my Bidd lives on Ethereum over to Avalanche? like have we crossed the inflection point where I can just send a tokenized version of that asset crosschain? Yeah, I mean I would say with interoperability solutions today and and we're integrated with wormhole, Axelr, Chainlink, CCIP and and other interoperability solutions and it really comes down to whatever a given institution or enterprise is is comfortable with and what their team has has deemed to be um you know safe and and adequate you know risk management. So we're to some extent agnostic uh to you know the interoperability solutions that a given project will will select that's at their discretion. Um but those are well integrated and and enable you know interoperability between ecosystems. I'd say just for for this you know audience who may not be as familiar with Avalanche we also have native interoperability through what's called interchain messaging. So assets can seamlessly transfer within the avalanche ecosystem be it from a FIFA layer 1 blockchain for example to inane uh which does tokenized structured finance is L L1 or back to the public permissionless Cchain. Maybe this is a bit of a a highlevel philosophical question, but I'm from &gt;&gt; I remember um I'm old enough to remember when one chain was going to rule them all and then now we still have a little bit of tribalism when we start to look at other chains. &gt;&gt; What's your perspective about the multi-chain thesis? um not only just having like EVM support and intra avalanche support but also being able to communicate with assets that live on other chains and other L1s that will launch in the future that might join the the mainstream zeitgeist of of the the flavor of the day. How do you view the role of various different chains acrewing various different assets RWAS and cryptonative assets alike? What's your perspective? Is is having multiple chains a necessary for us as an industry to grow and thrive or are you of the the perception that maybe we don't need too many chains? &gt;&gt; Yeah, I mean I'd say again it depends on on the given it depends on the given entity at hand. Avalanche offers purpose-built infrastructure and and blockchain so that entities such as an institution that may be beholdened to you know certain jurisdictional requirements or beholden to certain KYC AML requirements or um which may need more fine grained permissioning. It enables those institutions to really customize their layer one blockchain uh again at the the chain level with the requirements that their regulators, auditors, stakeholders, board etc may require. And so I would say that the future is multi-chain but with the asterisk that it's a multi-chain world of purpose-built blockchains &gt;&gt; um as opposed to a multi-chain world of general purpose blockchains. And for all the reasons that I mentioned earlier, um, you know, if you think about an institution that may be considering an L1 vers an Avalanche L1 versus an Avalanche L2, there are real concerns to be had for a scenario such as, you know, Taylor Swift, for example, launches an NFT on an L2 and that may be that may impede or um impinge upon the execution of a bilateral spot FX trade that an institution elsewhere is is doing. And so there are real issues to be uh reckoned with as an institution when considering the ramifications of um you know sharing an L2 uh with with other um you know entities that may be unrelated. So that's one you know aspect as well for entities and institution you know such as institutions to consider is on the congestion side you know who are you sharing the chain with um and that leads many institutions to want their own chain and their own um their own block you know block space to really tailor tailor to the requirements at at hand or to um you know avoid congestion problems or uh many of the other customizations that you cannot make on a general purpose chain. Let's take one quick step back so that we can take two steps forward. Of course, a lot of our audience is cryptonative, but like I always want my mom to walk away learning something new. So, when we're talking about tokenization, &gt;&gt; um like what exactly is it? Because somebody who's been in crypto since 2013 might say remember like Namecoin or the color coins on Bitcoin or maybe even CryptoKitties on Ethereum or you name it. And then tokenization today could mean something very different for like a bank or a trady institution. &gt;&gt; So what is tokenization and and like from your perspective what exactly is it? &gt;&gt; Yes. I mean, at its at its simplest, it is representing an asset as a digital token on a blockchain. Much of what I do in my role is is myth busting as it relates to tokenization. And so, one thing that that I would flag for this conversation is that what everyone gets wrong about tokenization is that the bottleneck really isn't the product. It's not about how many vaults you can launch or what APYs you can offer. The actual constraint is distribution economics. And most projects in my experience are optimizing for the wrong thing. So think about what a fintech faces when they want to offer yield products to their customers. They have this brutal build versus buy calculation staring them down. If they build in-house, they're looking at months of legal work, negotiating with asset managers, sorting out multi-jurisdictional, you know, compliance requirements, building frameworks from scratch, or they can integrate an API in a matter of of weeks and and go to market immediately. Um, most tokenization projects completely ignore this reality. They're out trying to acquire retail users one by one. They're grinding through the customer acquisition while platforms that built B2B TTOC infrastructure just plugged into apps with millions of existing users and and called it a day. And I point to projects building on Avalanche like Open Trade as well as Intane in conjunction with FIS and they represent two different but very you know equally effective approaches to solving the distribution problem and understanding how they did it really explains why our RWA growth on Avalanche has has looked different from everyone else's. So, Open Trade, as I mentioned, they do um yield as a service infrastructure. They show up in a lot of ecosystem mapping for tokenization. And there's a reason for that. They let FinTech offer yield products backed by serious names. Think Franklin Templeton Money Market Funds, Wisdom Tree Private Credit, Black Rockck's high yield corporate bond ETF. And they've in just 18 months secured 25 plus fintech partnerships across Latam, Africa, Europe, APAC. they're global and they've created two vaults on Avalanche. Um, and that represents just really the the tip of their distribution model and as opposed to most RWA platforms that are, you know, celebrating their 100th retail user, open trade plugs into very intentionally distribution channels with millions of existing customers. And that's not just for faster growth, but it's really a fundamentally different category of execution. And I would say that their approach reveals three pretty critical gaps that most projects miss entirely. One is legal infrastructure really determines your unic economics and open trade started with legal frameworks and regulated partnerships then built the tokenization technology. So for example, they work with FCA regulated asset manager five sigma and they produce weekly vault reports and that's the kind of institutional grade oversight that regulators actually recognize and will accept. Most teams do it backwards. They tokenize first, then they spend months in regulatory limbo trying to figure out compliance once and then once you've as that team they figured out the legal frameworks for one vault. they're deploying, you know, you know, deploying your tenth costs dramatically less. The marginal economics in that are are completely different. And when you think about fintexs that are building in-house, facing months of legal work per vault, those costs don't just spread across products. They're integrating, you know, existing infrastructure gives immediate access to multiple pre-approved products. And so open trade for example, you know, white labels effectively their legal framework. And so they really convert fixed costs into more scalable revenue. And I think that most RWAs or RWA projects will treat each vault as a one-off puzzle and then get stuck at two or three products while, you know, open trade with their infrastructure, you know, can can ship dozens. I'd say second, yield transparency really determines sales velocity. Treasury managers that are more institutional grade, they need breakdowns. They need to know x% comes from commercial paper minus y% in fees with complete attribution. They can't encounter opaque yields because otherwise their partners will inherit the black box and can't answer their CFO's questions about risk exposure. And that really translates into longer deal cycles and and you know higher turn rates longer term. And then finally, I really can't emphasize this enough, but B2B TOC economics really beat direct to consumer. And building in-house, like I said earlier, means months before launch, hundreds of thousands of dollars of costs, fixed overhead that really doesn't scale. And you know, when Open Trade acquires one fintech partner, that partner brings th you know, ultimately potentially thousands of end users and customer acquisitions get, you know, advertised across entire user bases. And so I would say all that's to say most infrastructure providers optimize for product variety and the number of products they can bring on chain instead of integration velocity. And in my view, going back to our discussion on metrics, the winning metric really isn't how many yield products do we offer. It's what's our partners' time to revenue. And every week a fintech &gt;&gt; spends integrating is a week that they're not generating yield revenue. And reducing that time to revenue from months to weeks creates months of incremental revenue opportunity. And that's real money left on the table when your integration is is pretty slow. &gt;&gt; I want to use this to spearhead an opportunity to shill avalanche. And one of the most fantastic metrics that um has kind of been spoken about across the crypto rags this month &gt;&gt; is of course we're looking back at 2025 now and seeing what the successes were and one of like the mindnumbing staggeringly high numbers was the percentage of growth of tokenized RWAS on Avalanche which grew 950% and for a moment there exceeded $1.3 billion in TVL. How how did did um Avalabs um curate this growth? How did these relationships get built? What was it that Avalabs did? What was it that took place in the zeitgeist of of America and maybe forward-looking policy? What is what was catching lightning in a bottle? A let's just acknowledge what you know worked outside of our our our control. And then B, what were the replicable things that Avalabs did that you're going to continue to do in 2026 to continue to see this type of growth? &gt;&gt; Like you said, you know, very exciting year in the Avalanche ecosystem. Saw about 950% year-over-year growth. Um, and it's really not just about attracting projects. It's about attracting the right projects and the platforms that have solved distribution economics first then needed infrastructure that matched their institutional requirements. So if you look at the you know north of of 1.3 billion in RWA TVL touch it's it's not spread across you know thousands of speculative yield farms. It's concentrated institutional deployments. So one example is FIS and in with 432 million in loan pools or Janice Henderson with 256 million in their JA product or Skybridge's Legion Strategies with 218 million and the list goes on. But the platforms winning institutional scale aren't the ones with the most vaults or the highest APYs. They're the ones that make distribution economics work. And so that reduce time to revenue from months to weeks that can convert you know fixed legal costs into scalable infrastructure and that ultimately plug into robust existing customer bases uh instead of you know grinding through one by one acquisition. And so the the path to institutional scale in my view also comes from making the the build versus buy decision really obvious. and Avalanch's growth is what happens when you know infrastructure aligns with with that reality. But I'd say just stepping back too on the institutional deployments. I mean those are yearslong relationships, much longer sales cycles as you might call them. Um that take number of a number of hours of handholding and educational sessions with institutions to ensure that they get up the educational learning curve that is that is blockchain that is understanding the avalanche ecosystem that is understanding its deterministic settlement you know and finality and how that um you know make meets the standards of their regulators. And so that is you know the the work of our business development team do taking that trusted advisor approach working with these projects um you know to working with the startups in our ecosystem and the builders in our ecosystem that um you know support these institutions with their products and services and that requires support in the form of capital access for example we have our director of ecosystem relations Brian Lieberman who's incredible and he plays matchmaker effectively between the startups and the builders in our ecosystem that may be raising and our allocator network um that are are willing to support these teams. It takes um you know joint go to market strategizing. It takes working with institutions to ensure that they you know make their way up the educational learning curve that they have the requisite integrations with you know as I mentioned earlier tokenization platforms like securitize republic the apex tokconies of a world the you know other platforms that that provide these services that they need be it oracle providers be it you know in the form of um other you know marketing support or whatever it may be we really do take a holistic approach to supporting institutions uh where they are and and where they need to be. &gt;&gt; So if you go to rwa.xyz and you look at the rwas that are coming on to Avalanche, these are tried to find names, um most like crypto natives probably aren't going to know the ins and the outs of these entities and their offerings. So I'm curious when you and your team are going out and doing BD to to meet with institutions to onboard RWAS where where are you going now? Are you going to like token 2049? Are you going to um the offices where these entities are located? Are you going to like TRDFI events? What does BD look like in 2026? And how did that evolve over the past year or so? &gt;&gt; Yeah. Um well I would say first and foremost much of my team comes from Wall Street. Um I came from Troll Price uh major asset manager. Much of our team came from city um and other institutions. So we already have networks filled with you know Wall Street executives and and decision makers and we also have the the expertise that has enabled us to really go into institutions understand their pain points and make suggestions for where avalanche blockchain technology could could slot in because the fact of the matter is a lot of institutions are not sure where to start in terms of their long list of of pain points and also not sure where blockchain may or may not be the remedy to certain certain problems. And so having come from from finance backgrounds um much of us on the team are are equipped to um address those problems but also to you know leverage our existing networks of you know institutional players having having been from that having come from that world. So that's one aspect. I'd say now in in terms of the conference circuit. I mean certainly we're we have a presence at you know token 2049. We've got um our head of Asia and and team uh going heading to consensus in a couple of weeks. We're at ETH Denver. So we definitely make the make the rounds as far as conferences go. But I would say much of my energy is focused on more of the web 2 conferences. So, as I mentioned earlier, I'm very excited about opportunities within the fintech landscape. And so, I spend a lot of time going to uh more tradiank or fintech f focused conferences um as those are the the entities that I want to bring on chain. So, it's a mix. To answer your question, I'm on the road quite a bit. I also uh go to some of the regulatory events as well. I've been to some of the SEC roundts in person in DC. Um have been to uh some opport some some events on the hill. And so um it really is a a mix of of events. And um you know I would caution anyone against being you know totally pigeonhold within within one community is this just really is such a an interdisciplinary space. And before we kind of like zoom out and and wrap up, what's kind of the goal? We mentioned that TVL is the northstar metric. So like what's the golden goal that Avalanche is shooting for right now? DAV is around 635ish million. Is this kind of a number that you're trying to increase? Are you trying to onboard X amount of new funds? what's kind of like the objective metric that the team is shooting for in 2026. &gt;&gt; Yeah, absolutely. And I would I would also, you know, caveat it by saying that again because Avalanche is a network of layer 1 blockchains, we all have our respective goals on the team. Um, in my case, leading out tokenization, I'm very excited about the distributed assets metric that I mentioned that RWA.xyz XYZ uh demonstrates, but really what that is at its core is bringing highquality assets into the ecosystem, but also giving utility to those assets and um so that'll be a a major focus for me in the next year. But I would say making the the Northstar vision is really to make businesses better with blockchain technology. And while it may sound simple, uh I don't think that many teams have um have focused on on doing just that and bringing traditional web 2 companies onchain and re-engineering their backends uh with tokenization, smart contracts and all of the the things we know and love about about blockchain. And so I'm very excited to see our continued efforts and bringing new asset classes on chain. And one area that our team has been very focused on is private credit. And obviously there's, you know, tokenized private credit opportunities and and accessing those yields. But um something that's that's quite counterintuitive is that some of the best performing assets in private credit aren't getting financed. And it's not because they're risky. They actually perform incredibly well. The problem is that the operational infrastructure um moving money is so slow that by the time traditional lenders can fund these assets, they've already matured. And so that's where we're excited is really upgrading private credit processes uh with blockchain technology to make it more efficient. And let me give you a more concrete example. Our head of onchain finance, Morgan Ketsky, has talked about this at RWA Summit, but 05, for example, originates short-term invoices for B2B payments. And we're talking 5 to 7day receivables. A business needs working capital today, so 05 funds them immediately. But to get warehouse financing from their lenders, there's this whole process of submitting a borrowing based spreadsheet, of waiting for the lender's back office to review it, of verifying collateral and reconciling everything. And this can take 5 to 10 days. And when you think about it, you just funded a 7-day asset, but you can't get leverage on it for 10 days. So what's happening? You're bridging that gap with your own equity capital, which costs way more than debt. your margins get crushed and capital markets teams are burning half a day every week manually reconciling Excel spreadsheets against facility terms and so this is fundamentally a trust problem lenders need to verify that assets are exactly what originators claim that they're performing correctly and that cash flows to senior you know creditors first traditionally you solve that with massive back office teams and that's why only the biggest private credit firms be it at a Blackstone Stone or an Apollo really dominate assetbacked finance and they have the operational infrastructure whereas emerging managers can't compete without building that backbone first. What our team has been pioneering is using blockchain infrastructure to change this. So companies like Fence for example are encoding facility terms directly into smart contracts such as the covenants, the cash waterfall, the fund flows all being programmed in and then they automate the monitoring in the settlement. And what used to take a week now happens in real time. You originate an asset, collateral data flows in automatically. The smart contract verifies everything and and funds release instantly. And there's no spreadsheets or reconciliation or delays as I just mentioned. And the really exciting impact is that some originators are seeing their total cost of capital drop 30 to 40%. Through pure operational efficiency without even changing the interest rate. So suddenly a small fund can compete in markets that used to require huge teams and originators aren't stuck with one or two lenders anymore because they have real allocation ability. And so what what people miss in my opinion is this isn't really about tokenizing loans to trade on some exchange. It's really about using blockchain infrastructure to fix the operational plumbing of traditional finance and its businesses. And the end borrower has no idea it's happening on chain. I mean they have access to the information but they don't need to know what's happening on chain. But their provider can suddenly scale faster and access cheaper capital. And um that's that's what we're seeing in terms of the democratization of institutional finance in a more practical sense in a very practical sense. And better technology means more participants can enter markets that historically we're walled gardens and really the the infrastructure is here thanks to tokenization, smart contracts, etc. And um now it's it's a race to who will adopt it first. Thank you so much for giving like a concrete example about how blockchain technology is replacing these kind of like old T plus insert X days um for for traditional entities and how blockchain actually is a realworld technology that is providing outdated um processes. Uh so in addition to kind of like this recognition for how blockchain and tokenization can be used um because you're in the DC area and I myself flew out to DC in December 2023 with Stand with Crypto to talk about procrypto legislation. How has the passage of Genius Act and how is the hopefully forthcoming passage of Clarity going to make your job easier? So, first off, for those who aren't familiar with it, I'd highly encourage you to look at the Avalanche Policy Coalition. Uh, they write some great newsletters, publish great podcasts. They were just on the ground in Davos, and they're a really great resource for all things uh blockchain and legislation. So to clarify, so the the Clarity Act is a major US legislative effort to establish a clear market structure for digital assets and it's to divide oversight between CFTC and the SEC and with the CFTC governing secondary markets for digital commodities and the SEC retaining authority over primary issuances and and anti-fraud. So this week, the Senate Agriculture Committee advanced its portion of the framework in a short uneventful markup and passing the the bill along strict party lines without amendments. And that's largely um you know the basically the Senate Senate a draft focuses narrowly on on secondary markets and and adopts you know a key industry priority by giving existing financial intermediaries a more streamlined path into crypto and it also creates new CFTC regulated categories such as digital commodity brokers, dealers, exchanges and custodians. Um though you know significant rulem will be required at a time when the the CFTC lacks a quorum. So, um I would say you know what what where attention now shifts is really to Senate banking where negotiations particularly around stable coins uh paying yield are ongoing and in this includes a white house meeting I think it was today or this week and if resolved uh a markup later this month is possible making really banking the key remaining gatekeeper for clarity's path forward. Um, as a policy team looking ahead, we're focused on three priorities. One is getting token classification right, especially for tokenized real world assets, so that regulation follows the asset as opposed to the technology. Two is protecting the line between infrastructure and intermediaries with regulation applied to the businesses operating on top of blockchain rails rather than the rails themselves. And then three, we're very focused on defending an open internet so that blockchains can function as finance and commerce can, you know, continue moving online. &gt;&gt; Awesome. I'm gonna ask a question that you're gonna have to move a little bit nimly because um a lot of folks don't like to talk about price when they're working at an entity, but we cannot ignore the absolute separation between sentiment on CT and the sheer amount of adoption that's actually happening. Governments are holding digital assets. Uh Tradfi institutions are onboarding blockchain rails. You gave dozens of examples during this conversation. Where is the disparity between current sentiment and adoption? Why are we seeing such sentiment in the gutter right now? &gt;&gt; Yeah. Well, I would say first of all, in my opinion, one of the most misunderstood signals in crypto right now is the the disconnect between network activity and price. And I view this actually as a sign of maturity as opposed to weakness. You know, in earlier cycles, one could have observed that that everything moved together and that sentiment ripped onchain activity ripped and then the music stopped and and everything collapsed. And that was classic reflexivity where you know speculation would feed on itself. Um but what's different in this you know year early 2026 is that the systems keep running even when the market mood doesn't and you can really see that across the board. Um there's infrastructure doing real throughput on the institutional side. You've got rails and products continuing to evolve even you know as positioning gets derisked. um you know obviously ETFs um saw some outflows earlier this month and um yet the the buildout continues and so even looking at Avalanche you know Q4 2025 the network hit record usage average daily transactions on our public permissionless Cchain jumped 60% quarter over quarter active addresses climbed into the hundreds of thousands daily and and by year end we were supporting 75 active layer 1 networks or blockchains and that represents more than a doubling year-over-year. And that's not speculative. That's, you know, infrastructure scaling under under real demand. And so, um, that's also shown in the institutional deployments that we talked about earlier with BlackRock allocations on Avalanche. MUFG backed Progat migrated tokenized securities to an avalanche to serve regulated Japanese financial institutions. FIS partnered with Inane to tokenize and manage loan assets across thousands of US banks. None of that seems to generate headlines. Um, but it it does represent really highquality institutions with long deployment horizons increasingly entering entering the space. And so I know sentiment is really stark right now. I think the crypto fear and greed index printed at 16 extreme fear. Um, Bitcoin lost you know some support. So the natural question is really you know if people are building and transactions are happening why does it why does it feel bleak um and I think that's what happen that's what it looks like when an asset stops being you know purely speculative and really becomes more structural and in traditional markets you know fundamentals and and price are related but they're not the same exact signal you know you don't repric Visa every time transaction count ticks up you don't repric you know AWS names every time a developer spins up a new instance. Markets have cycles, macro matters, positioning matters, and I think crypto is really learning that that separation for the first time. &gt;&gt; Awesome. Well, thank you so much for spending an hour with us, Olivia. If anybody's heard this or you want people to reach out to you, what's the best way that people can connect with you and who are you looking to connect with? &gt;&gt; Yeah, absolutely. Well, please feel free to reach out to me on Twitter, uh, cryptoen, which is crypto queen in French. Uh, c r y p i ne. And also, please feel free to reach out to me on LinkedIn. Um, you can see my name here, Olivia Vanderwood. I welcome all inquiries, all questions. I am um here in the spirit of intellectual curiosity and and also keen to support anyone who is exploring or building and is you know excited to explore the avalanche ecosystem and uh really interested in speaking with any web 2 based company be it a a fintech or otherwise that's excited about blockchain but doesn't know where to to start in terms of developing a stable coin strategy or incorporating tokenized assets into into the road map. I'm also excited to talk to allocators, particularly liquid funds that may have an interest in um you know, RWAs or DeFi strategies within the Avalanche ecosystem. And really anyone with any interest in the Avalanche ecosystem is is uh someone I'm very excited to talk to. So, please uh please do feel free to reach out. &gt;&gt; Well, I can attest to the speed in which Olivia will respond to you. It's rapid. &gt;&gt; Thanks, Dylan. &gt;&gt; Awesome. Well, thank you so much for your time. I appreciate it and uh looking forward to chatting again. &gt;&gt; Absolutely. Thank you so much for having me on. &gt;&gt; Cheers. &gt;&gt; Thank you so much for tuning in to the Smart Economy Podcast. To stay in the loop with all of our latest episodes and insights, head over to www.smarteconomyodcast.com. And don't forget to subscribe to our YouTube channel for all of our video content. And if you enjoyed today's discussion, please consider showing your support by liking, commenting, and reviewing this episode on your favorite podcasting platform. Your feedback helps us reach more listeners and brings even better content your way. We'd also love to hear from you, so drop a comment in Spotify or YouTube to share what topics you'd like us to cover or who you'd like to see as our next guest. And if you or someone you know would make a great guest, then please don't hesitate to reach out. We're always on the hunt for fresh voices and new perspectives. And for our NEO token holders out there, please consider voting for NEO news today as your council representative. We've proudly been serving the NEO ecosystem since 2017 and we'll continue to do so by putting portions of our council rewards directly back into ecosystem growth initiatives. Once again, thank you so much for tuning in to the Smart Economy podcast, and we look forward to catching you on the next episode.