If you look back on humanity, how many inflection points in terms of industries emerging, can you point to and how lucky do you have to be to sort of be on the scene and have a chance to to do that? If one shows up and you've got uh an invitation to sit at the table, it seemed to me like it would be, you know, a real miss not to try to take part in something like that. Hey everyone, welcome to the Smart Economy podcast where we ask your favorite builders the questions you wish you could ask yourself. This is a production of neonnewstoday.com and I'm your host Dylan Grabowski. In this episode of the Smart Economy podcast, we're joined by Nick Hansen, the team lead at the Graph Foundation, the entity responsible for stewarding the graph, an indexing protocol for organizing blockchain data and making it easily accessible. In this conversation, Nick and I discussed how hosting a podcast led to becoming the lead at a brand name blockchain foundation. How the graph aims to be the Google of blockchains, the benefit of decentralized solutions over their centralized counterparts, innovating blockchain projects that have the OG status, and so much more. Just a reminder, nothing said on this podcast is a solicitation to buy or sell any tokens and that the host or guest might hold tokens discussed in any given episode. You can read a disclaimer at neonnew.com. And if you enjoyed this episode, please consider rating and reviewing on your favorite podcasting platform and sharing with your friends and family. Every rating, review, like, comment, and share helps us reach more people and bring you more of your favorite guests. With all that said, I really enjoyed chatting with Nick, and I hope you enjoy the conversation, too. Hey everyone, welcome to the Smart Economy podcast. Today we're joined by Nick Hansen, the team lead at the Graph Foundation. I'm really excited about this conversation today. Nick, how are you doing? &gt;&gt; I'm doing great, Dylan. Thank you so much for having me here. I've been thrilled to meet you and uh take part in this discussion. So, thanks, man. &gt;&gt; Yeah, this is going to be awesome. Um, you've got a really cool background. It's kind of like winding and curving like mine. Um, but before we dig into that, I do just kind of want to get a sense of what was your introduction into blockchain and crypto. I asked this question and like 80% of the people are like, I looked at Bitcoin in 2012 and didn't come back until 2017. What's your situation? What's your experience with blockchain crypto like? And did you have your aha moment immediately or did it take a few years? &gt;&gt; Yeah. So I actually know the moment like I know the moment when this happened which is a trip but I was working as a marketing business development guy in traditional finance. So worked for a little boutique regional broker dealer or raia. So anybody that's sort of in the trady world will know what those terms are. But for those that don't, small little organization and my brother called me one day and we were just catching up and he said, you know, I don't understand why you tradi guys aren't talking more about crypto. Uh, this is the next huge asset class. And at the time, you know, if I could have him on here, it would be very funny to hear him and I go back and forth, but I basically said to him, look, you could drive to the building right now, come up to the conference room, I'll put everyone in our organization in there, and no one will know what the heck you're talking about. like not only is there no interest, like nobody here even knows what you're talking about. So, um that opened the door to a longer conversation that I think even continued on my drive home, I I caught up with him again on the way home. And in essence, uh you know, older brother said, "Look, you need to pay more attention to this. There's a lot of really interesting things going on there. This is sort of the way the future's going. So, whether or not your organization or the people you work with have any interest is my brother. You need to kind of wake up and pay more attention." So, I did. And um I'll be honest and I think this is sort of pretty common. You know, it started with an interest in Bitcoin and this new uh economic or financial system. So yeah, I I opened a Coinbase account and I thought, you know, what's going on here? What are tokens? Can you buy these things and and how does all of that work? So that was my introduction. It came through a brother prompting me to kind of get involved. I didn't know anything at the time. I recall uh when I was a younger guy in a a different industry besides uh Tradfi, I recall being in the office one day and a colleague a few cubes down from me said, you know, let's buy some Bitcoin today. And I I I I remember mocking him for probably 30 or 40 minutes straight, just the jokes about sort of what he was thinking and what he was up to. So, I had early ideas of Bitcoin um a long time ago, but I didn't do anything. It was a call from a brother that sort of turned the light bulb on and got me interested. &gt;&gt; What year was it when you were making fun of your coworker for wanting to buy Bitcoin? And then what year was it when your brother kind of like sparked the the drive for you? &gt;&gt; Yep. So, I'm going to get the year wrong with my colleague, but it was definitely &gt;&gt; early. &gt;&gt; Really early. It's like maybe early 2010s. Okay. So, somewhere in there. I mean it was a long time ago. &gt;&gt; Yeah. &gt;&gt; Um &gt;&gt; and this guy was very forward thinking. He was a little bit of a technologist. We were working in real estate at the time. So, you know, we weren't talking about Bitcoin every day. We were talking about leases and land development deals. And so, he was just always a little spunky and had crazy ideas. But yeah, we we were joking and and we gave him a lot of crap for that um that day. And then my brother was 2021, I think, uh around that time period, late in the year. Um and yeah, that that conversation, I'll never forget it. I remember looking out my office window just being like, "Man, I love this guy. He is calling me in the middle of my day pitching me crypto. What is he talking about?" &gt;&gt; Awesome. So, you I alluded to this in kind of like the intro, but you and I have both had winding paths that ended us into the blockchain space. Mine um is a little bit more straightforward. I worked as an urban planner before I got bit by the cryptobug in 2017. And then less than 7 months after buying my first Bitcoin, I was my first portion of a Bitcoin. Um, I was working full-time in the blockchain space. Uh, prior to you joining the graph ecosystem, you you mentioned earlier that you had your hand in a lot of different interesting pots. Real estate sales, you did you did a radio talk show stint, you were in marketing department for TRFI, you also taught a little bit. So maybe we can just kind of do the the ontology of of your career. Like where did you start out and then like how did your path lead you to the graph? &gt;&gt; Yeah. Well, it it is a winding road and I think that's pretty common for web 3. I I don't remember who it was. I was talking to somebody one day and it said, you know, you almost need somebody that is open to the windiness of career flexibility to even enter into the space at least as it presently sits. Um yeah, my background, you know, I've always cared a lot about career. I've always cared a lot about profession probably too much but early on in my life um I got involved in real estate so I was an asset manager uh worked on some big projects where basically I would manage uh you know office buildings, medical buildings, retail sites and I did that for quite a while and uh I didn't really enjoy it. Around that time I was trying to figure out an off-ramp of you know how do I get out of real estate if this isn't my thing? And so I went and got a graduate degree in business and I was just sort of hoping that that would uh be a launch pad for me to try something different and it worked. Uh I sort of leveraged out of real estate into a short stint in sales. Um but it was around that time that an old high school friend reached out to me and said, "Hey, you know, we're uh thinking about doing a radio show and you've always been, you know, kind of an interesting guy. probably could do the host thing and would you be willing to kind of meet me and my partner on Saturdays? We'll go down to the radio station uh and we'll record a radio show. So, I did. So, it was basically like a side hustle a little bit. Um I I don't even know if they offered to pay me, but I was excited at the opportunity. The the radio station itself here where I live was fairly wellnown. So, I thought, well, people are going to hear this. This isn't some weird little uh radio station that no one will ever hear. So, yeah, I went and did it and it was a thrill. We did um live uh shows. So live radio is amazing, right? We had a couple times where there was like some sort of external event that we had to warn people about traffic or some health concerns. So that was always fun to get the notes and kind of have to do that live and coming in and out of breaks. Uh and so I did that for a while. I still had my sales gig and then uh those guys at the financial firm that we were working on the radio show said, "Hey, why don't you come do full-time marketing for us?" So leveraged out of that to go with them and then that's where I sat down for a while and and worked with them and uh I loved it. We grew that firm. I was part of sort of a really amazing growth uh trajectory and had a lot of fun working with that team. And while I was working in that financial uh organization, the college where I went and got my graduate degree reached out to me and said, "Hey, um we have a business class. We think you're best suited for it. would you ever be willing to come back and and teach here? I was in the middle of a transition. So, I said no. But it was really hard for me because my dream I think I if I could like start my life over, I was probably born to be an academic. I really love academia. I love teaching. So, I was like, "Oh man, I I have to say no. I'm just changing jobs. It doesn't work." And maybe two or three months go by and then the dean of the business school reached out and said, "Hey, you know, this is my baby. This is my class. I taught it to you. I really need to hand it off to like the next generation. Will you please come teach it?" And so yeah, I I now I have another side hustle. So I stayed at the financial firm, continued working on that and then uh nights and weekends I would go teach and I think I taught for I'm forgetting seven years, maybe you'll know better because you looked recently, but around seven years and I loved it. I I would I would work all day, grab a quick sandwich and coffee and head straight into a class and teach that night and would teach graduate students, undergraduate students. And I loved it. And I did that for a very long time until I got a call from my brother one day and said, "You need to start paying attention to crypto." &gt;&gt; Awesome. It all comes full circle. Um, and I want to delve into the interesting way in which you broke into the crypto space as well. But I guess as a content creator, um, both of us are content creators, um, and have been over the past handful of years. what what was it about like radio that made you think this is something I want to do? And I I asked that question. It sounds really simple at at face value, but we're in the era of streaming services. We're in the era of Netflix. We're in the era of podcasts and have been for the past decade or so. So, and and I don't mean to sound like radio's dying, but like what made you say like, "Hell yeah, I'm going to give up a part of my Saturdays to go into this thing that may or may not have a dwindling audience because perhaps there's a certain demographic that only listens to radio." Um, and then also, what was it like actually like having a studio going into it? Um, what were the topics you guys covered? I'm just super interested in that. that part of your background is just like really cool to me. &gt;&gt; Yeah. Well, thank you. I mean, it was an amazing ride and I think some people are like, "Oh, man, that sounds pretty boring." And other people be like, "That's super intimidating." But for me, it was just the challenge of it, right? I mean, going and doing from starting from zero and going doing a live radio show with two like financial experts and asking them questions, taking callers, um, working with a producer who's behind the glass playing the music in and out on a pretty well-known station. like yeah I just thought well this is an incredible challenge and it sounded like a fun thing. So that was really my interest and uh we we would talk about you know we'd give people financial advice. It was a little bit modeled on for you know listeners of this podcast who are in the US there's a guy in the US called Dave Ramsey. He's a pretty famous like you know uh thought leader on personal finance. So we modeled a lot of the show on that approach of taking callers and trying to give personal financial advice. So there was part of it that's like you know this is information I'd like to learn. Sure. Um, the experience of getting to work and reconnecting with an old high school friend was interesting to me. But yeah, going live on the air and knowing that your margin for error was uh really tight was amazing because you'd have someone behind the glass being like, you know, 10 seconds and you'd have to get this question wound down and then get the promo out the door and uh so it was a lot of fun. Kept me on my toes and uh I loved it. &gt;&gt; Cool. Um the the kind of like seed that got me interested into blockchain and crypto was learning about index funds, 401ks, IAS, the very the very basics. Um and then throughout my studies in 2015, 16,17, really getting to understand the traditional financial world and how to plan for retirement and all these things, you kept coming across all these people calling Bitcoin a scam. And of course, after a while, you learn what a 401k is, you learn what an index fund is, you kind of hit the level that you need to. And then for me, it was like, "All right, well, let's go research Bitcoin." Um, and then of course I bought some and and that was it for me. Um, so for you, when when your after that conversation with your brother, you probably acquire some digital assets. What's what happens then? Because if it's similar to me, it became a thing that was all consuming. It was all you could think about. um it's creeping into your mind during your day at at your day job. Um what was it like for you and how did you start exploring the various different blockchain ecosystems after you bought probably your first few blue chips, Bitcoin, Ethereum, etc.? Yeah, it's a good question and it's a little bit nuanced and so forgive me if I take you through it, but yes, he introduced me, got me thinking about it, opened an account on Coinbase, tried to figure out what this whole thing was and um at the time, you know, he was really enthusiastic about a particular protocol. I won't say what it was, but you know, he was very excited about it. So, he was &gt;&gt; Is it still around? &gt;&gt; Oh, oh, yeah, for sure. For sure. It's very well known, but I just don't want to do that to him or, you know, that community. So uh basically though uh he he educ he he was educating me and being a great mentor uh but he was also doing it through the lens of like a project he was super interested in. So I used that as my research vector his enthusiasm and what I was seeing in there. And so that's sort of how I learned it. I I was looking at Coinbase and I was getting information from my brother about this particular project. And so what I learned early on is that wow in web 3 in this crypto thing um you can actually start a brand and become a thought leader because as I watched his project and I listen to the types of people that he was interested in or he was connecting with these were just you know content creators people that were enthusiastic about the project and doing like you just putting in time and sacrificing and getting to know what was going on in the space. So I immediately launched an online brand. So, I was teaching. I was on the financial thing. And I'm like, "Okay, I probably got a little more space to do one more side hustle, which is let's just play this out." Like, if you can really show up, create an online brand and get involved in this, then uh let's see how that goes. So, I was contemplating how would I do that? What would that look like? And it was around that time that I became aware of the graph. And the way I found the graph was just serendipity. I was looking at my Coinbase account one night and uh I saw a new token launch and it was called the graph and I'm like what is this thing? So I started what I hope most people would do is I started googling the founders. I did as much research as I could. So you know not just like buy a buy and hold or buy and flip type of mentality. It was like who are these people? What are what are they up to? What's this technology? So I spent the evening googling the three founders. I spent the evening googling what is the graph? what is indexing blockchain data and I I kind of built some personal conviction that this is a a new token. So it's it's it's a fresh snow for a guy like me who wants to be a content creator. I thought what I'll do is I'll use my marketing some of my tradi analytics a little bit of a you know a scratch graph designer. I'm probably not very good at all but at the time I thought I could p pull this off. So I would do analytics infographics. I would interview people. So, I started sending out, you know, written interviews to people. I'd find them on Discord or wherever and say, "Hey, I 10 questions." And I would publish it. So, that's what I did. I became what I hoped to be this online persona that could get some traction in the graph space all without knowing how this works. Would I make money? Uh, was it worth it or not? But I I had conviction for the graph. These founders were real. They'd been working on the problem for a long time. it was new so I wasn't showing up to a crowded space. So yeah, I rolled the dice on that and and it started with just online graphics, online marketing and some written interviews and eventually became a podcast and um a little bit of a voice within the graph community. &gt;&gt; Yeah. So you have this kind of background in in finances and this is something that I've constantly been grappling with since I've been working in the space since 2018. And you see a lot of anons on crypto Twitter who may or may not get mad about the price of a token. Usually they're mad when it's going down and they say we're investors in a project. And I've always been very careful with my words ever since I bought my first crypto in 2017 to mention that we're speculating. We're speculating on an asset. And maybe now, finally, in 2025, maybe 2024, we could start saying that like one or two blue chips could be an investment because of the way that Wall Street is looking at ETFs, the underlying assets, what have you. How do you kind of balance this track record, this career in traditional financial instruments and also this kind of like wild west cutting edge digital asset crypto space? How do you kind of like balance trying to create a a a PE ratio or or something similar that that's realistic and grounded for how um your friends who are outside of crypto might be able to look at various different digital assets. &gt;&gt; Yeah. I mean I think first of all this is not a graph ccentric question. This is an industry question and any participant in this industry has to answer these types of questions. Um, for me, you know, I've never advised anybody to buy anything and um, I don't provide financial advice. No one should take financial advice from me. And I think the regulatory environment, although, you know, shifting favorable to all the incredible things that have been done within sort of this blockchain, crypto, web3 industry, it's exciting to see, it's still, you know, being shaped and I think people need to be super cautious. So, when I talk about it generally, I say, you know, first of all, as you said, these are high-risk um things, you know, and you don't always know who's on the other side of the table. You don't always understand their intentions. And so, the way to kind of get involved in this thing is to do what I did and presumably what you and a lot of listeners did, which is get to know people. Show up in Discord, get involved in Telegram, and see if you can develop some conviction for the actual tech and the mission or mandate of what this uh project aims to do. If you can get your mind around that, then you can shake, you know, a couple hands digitally or in person, uh, then you're probably in a in a position to kind of make some decisions about, do I want to own that token? Uh, do I want to participate in that network in some other financial way? And of course, you know, Web3 offers a variety of ways to to participate in this way. But as a as a general rule, you know, you you absolutely have to do your own research. And it's silly, right? because web 3 is sort of like bastardized that term, but it's it's just good oldfashioned logic, right? This is true when you're buying a home, when you're buying a car, when you're uh choosing a partner, when you're deciding if you want to get a dog, like do your own research, figure it out. And and the thing about traditional finance that is super apppropo for the types of things that we're talking about today is traditional finance recognizes that um the personal needs and the risk tolerance and all of those types of things related to your own research and the decisions you make evolve over time as you get older. You know, you're probably more riskadverse than you are as a young person. So what does that mean? That just means that there are a lot of rules already in place um set in place through traditional finance that you can leverage to make decisions about you know what you do uh with how you invest and and the types of projects you get interested and uh it's really important to kind of leverage that framework because it's already fully developed. I mean Wall Street had a jump on on the way to think about research and doing your own research for a very long time. The question though uh the other part of your question is like what analytics do you point to right like is there a PE ratio and stuff and yeah that gets super complicated like I said I I don't provide financial advice and uh even in my role in traditional finance I wasn't even doing that type of work so uh even to kind of say something about that would be tricky but it is an industry problem I think all projects need to get better at uh communicating the fundamentals and demonstrating sort of value creation and value capture it's not a it's not anything specific to any projects. I'm interested. It's an industry thing and I'm super excited uh that you know the industry starts to do better at that and I think regulatory support and regulatory framework brings that uh opportunity more to life. So yeah, I think we'll see a lot of amazing things sort of in the next few years about that. &gt;&gt; Yeah, I only ask because it's just so hard to quantify and use objective deliverable metrics still to this day for a lot of different blockchain projects. So, um, it it just feels like we're just now turning the corner where maybe, just maybe, we can start coming up with some quantifiable measurements that anybody who's interested in exploring the space can use when they're performing their own research. Um, but the last question I want to ask before we kind of like massage into the graph and the graph ecosystem and and I'm super glad you doubled down on on talking about the the radio show experience you had because I also think that like the job you got out of your radio show, you also leveraged your podcast into helping you get a step up into creating a role within the graph ecosystem. So maybe we can talk a little bit about the podcast. Um, you had more than 200 uh interviews, which is phenomenal. You're actually our 100th interview for the Smart. &gt;&gt; Yeah. &gt;&gt; Well, that's amazing. Well, I'm honored by that, by the way. That was a huge deal for me. So, you know, um I guess the fates lined it up this way, but congratulations. That's a huge milestone and yeah, I'm honored to be here. I didn't know that, but congrats. That's a big deal. &gt;&gt; Yeah. Thank you. Thank you. So, um I think that and I'll take another little winding detour. Uh, a couple years ago, the I went on a college campus university tour to go talk to blockchain clubs about how to build careers in web 3. And a lot of students wanted to be in the web 3 space, but they were still grappling this concept of do I build a project now? Do I get my degree? I don't know how to get into this space. It's still also very nent. So there's no kind of like trajectory to get in. you kind of have to figure out a way to open the door for yourself. And so you did this with the QRTQ podcast. So how did um how did you launch it? How did you come across your guests? And then maybe we can also use that experience that you had and talk about how you parlayed that into building a role within the graph foundation and the graph ecosystem. Okay, so the GRTIQ brand is is the brand I launched when I started experimenting with okay maybe I'll enter into the space and it was after just a few months I mean I think I launched GRTIQ formally on a December into January and and it was in March where the podcast went live and so episode one launched I never missed a Friday until my role changed at the graph foundation so that was always sort of a big deal to me that ever since I launched I hit every Friday and as you said uh over 200 episodes interviewed a lot of people similar to you inside outside the ecosystem just want to get to know people and hear uh stories very much sort um a storyoriented interview type of style like I I I'm non-technical so I didn't want to get people on and debate uh different things I just wanted to hear like you're doing today uh how people got to where they were and sort of what their motivations were. I did that for eight months um just as a side hustle. So I got to know a lot of people. I actually had the opportunity to interview people at the Graph Foundation that I would eventually go to work with. But I was meeting a lot of other uh thought leaders in the graph ecosystem. And as I got my traction and as I built up some credibility, those folks started introducing me to other folks. And yeah, I mean for anyone interested, you could go to my podcast and kind of see that yeah, I had some really great guests on um notable guests that uh I was really lucky to to network into. And I did that for eight months. So I was teaching, I was doing the financial thing, and I was doing this podcast. And as you well know, podcasts are a ton of work. And um no one really appreciates how much research and all the production and everything that goes into this. So shout out to you on your hundth. And I I know that pain, but I loved it. And so this this podcast experience for me was sort of the transition away from that Coinbase brother introduction of kind of like, you know, what's going on in the space to real deep conviction for the people in the space. So I started interviewing founders, builders, and like I said, a lot of people within the graph ecosystem, and I fell in love with the people and the passion for why they were here. And so it started to sort of mold how I viewed this industry and it became an education. I mean you can't have, you know, an hourong conversation every week and then edit it because I was editing it myself and producing it myself. So I was like revisiting every interview multiple times. So yeah, you hear this stuff, you get a real education just from exposure. Yeah. And I I started getting conviction. Okay. Well, you know, I talked to Dylan. Dylan's a brilliant guy. Gave up a lot. Has a great education. Very honest. very ethical and he's all in on this thing and he's building this thing that does you know X Y or Z wow this thing is amazing so yeah initial spark of what is this became these people are amazing there's something real here and I was very lucky uh sort of eight months in uh the graph foundation came to me and said we're looking for uh a role it just so happened at at the traditional finance uh organization I was working at there was some change happening there so it was a it was a uh a a vector at which I had to make some life decisions and career. And it was funny uh you you may appreciate this, some of your listeners might, but I came home on the day I sort of needed to make that decision. And I have a wife and two children and I involved them in my in in my uh professional decision. So, we kind of laid out the benefits of staying, the benefits of making the move and the impact it would have. And uh yeah, I just remember everyone at the table's like, "Yeah, you got to do this crypto thing. Like, what? This sounds like the future. This is incredible tech." So, made the move full-time to the foundation and yeah, haven't looked back. &gt;&gt; Cool. Uh, also apologies, GRT IQ. &gt;&gt; Yeah, no stress. No stress. &gt;&gt; Um, that's amazing that and and that you kind of half answered the other question I wanted to ask. When I made my leap full-time into crypto, I was uh single. I was about to move between states. I didn't have a lot of ties or responsibilities to me. So, um, this was also 3 years sooner than you jumped into the space full-time. Um, what were the the opportunities that you were super excited about jumping full-time in into the graph ecosystem? And if you can recall, what were some some of the concerns about going into this naent industry in general full-time? &gt;&gt; Yeah, so I'll go in reverse order. Like the the number one concern was you know what if this thing sort of doesn't work out like what if the graph as a project or this industry as a whole gets regulated out of existence or there's just nothing there but yeah eight months in lots of interviews lots of talking to people it it seemed like a a relatively minor risk in addition to that I was a little burned out on Tradfi I'd seen enough of that industry so even though I loved the team and I had a really great experience sort of taking part in building what that eventually became um that industry itself wasn't that that sexy to me anymore. So tech seemed interesting and you know how do you work with people that are based in Silicon Valley and sort of run in those circles? Uh from where I lived I wasn't going to relocate my family. Well, you go online and you meet them and you join the community. So it seemed like an opportunity to connect in to something super interesting. Um so the risks at that time to me I felt like I I had kind of gone through them all. I guess the other risk was just the opportunity cost. You know, when I left Tradfi in that role there, I was giving up somewhat of a legacy and something I had worked really hard to build. But um for all the factors I just said, it seemed like uh worth taking it. And I forget the first part of your question, but I'm happy to sort of answer that, so forgive me. But &gt;&gt; no, yeah. What was what were the pros? Like what was like this is it? &gt;&gt; I think it came down to one thing. I'm so glad uh you reminded me. It was if you look back on humanity, right? Like go way back. Go to the go back to the pyramids and further back if you can, right? How many inflection points in terms of industries emerging can you point to and how lucky do you have to be to sort of be on the scene and have a chance to to do that? So I wanted to do something meaningful with my life. I mean, you know, work, we all work um if you work in web 3, you work all the time. And people that aren't in the in the space yet, you know, probably do the the 8 to 5 thing and probably even some overtime. But if you're going to spend that time on something, it should be meaningful to you. It's one thing to feed yourself and your family. It's another thing to just kind of burn eight hours or more of your day uh for something you don't care about. So, I was really interested in taking part in something that seemed meaningful. and the idea that it was an emerging industry and those don't come around, you know, there's not going to be a new industry next year or the year after that, we don't know when these things are going to happen. But if one shows up and you've got uh an invitation to sit at the table, it seemed to me like in terms of just being a human, having a human experience and looking at the way these things go, it would be, you know, a real miss not to try to take part in something like that. So that was the ultimate motivation of like, yeah, this is this is in the broader scheme of things something I should try. &gt;&gt; Yeah. So, um, when people like first discover Bitcoin, the sexy idea is like, um, this is a new money that's hard and it it doesn't have a government. When people first stumble on um a government backing it when people first stumbling stumble on Ethereum, this is the world's supercomput where real world assets can live on it forever. It's digital oil. When people stumble on the graph, they're like decentralized indexing and querying protocols. I I don't see how like somebody can get like super bought in to this kind of like integral part of web 3 infrastructure, but like you kind of need to be in the weeds a little bit to understand the the importance of what the graph protocol offers. So maybe now we can use this as an opportunity to just like Eli 5 elevator pitch what the graph protocol is and like why did it click for you as somebody who was like ready to leave tradfi. Why did you go into this super niche architecture and infrastructure as like this is my all-in space. Yeah. Well, so the graph made it super easy for me. Now now these folks over time became my colleagues, right? But at the time I didn't know who anybody was other than the research I had done. But you know they branded the graph the Google of web 3. So you know I I understood it immediately and yes I had to click into what is indexing and and how does that sort of work and again I had the benefit of all these interviews. The first interview I ever did episode number one was by the way somebody I stay in touch with all the time. Like we became friends. He lives on a different side of the the planet and we talk and stay in touch and we've been through a lot of life events together. So it's really amazing that I just reached out blindly to this person. and he's like, "Yeah, I'll do an interview." Um, and it was an indexer. So, a long OG longtime contributor indexer at the graph. And so, through that interview, you know, I got a front row seat to understanding what indexing was. And I ended up interviewing a lot of different indexers on the graph who uh for the audience th those are node operators. They are the ones that supply the queries and the data to users who use the graph. So, they're the infrastructure partners. And um yeah, so Google of uh blockchains super easy to understand. I was already on third base, so to speak. Um, the other thing was, you know, there there's some great articles out there, uh, you know, I know Multicoin wrote about this on on their blog, but this this thing called, you know, the read write problem. So, it seemed fairly intuitive to me um, at the time and probably for you and your audience, you were probably way ahead of this, but, you know, blockchains are fundamentally intended to be written to. that's sort of what the technology does and we all love it and we we we want to participate in this industry by virtue of that quality but reading blockchain isn't as easy and it wasn't necessarily designed to be read from and so I sort of using my business or uh strategy lens identified that this was a legitimate problem like uh it's clear that if blockchain tech continues to grow in adoption and it solves inherently the right problem. Somebody's got to figure out the read component. And so over time, I came to appreciate the graph's role in that. And you know, the graph as an industry participant has evolved over time. But I don't think it gets enough credit. And by the way, this has nothing to do with me. I wasn't on the bus at this point. But what the graph did for the industry as a whole as a pioneer, introducing subgraphs, um launching graph node, uh setting the standards and sort of really providing a backbone for DeFi summer and and sort of everything that came out of that. The graph doesn't get enough credit for being an OG in sort of standing up the industry in that way. And as I said, I I had nothing to do with at the time. I I I doubt I even talked to my brother at the point that sort of the graph was getting their hands really dirty on that stuff. So shout out to that first generation. But yeah, anybody who studies the nature of the problem um reading blockchain data and will understand sort of the value of what the graph does and and even if you don't understand the tech, why it's necessary. &gt;&gt; Maybe you can um help paint a picture then because even the most technical people don't understand the role of querying and and things of this nature. So maybe just like give a few examples of how apps or DAPs in general in the general blockchain ecosystem are improved or empowered by the graph. &gt;&gt; Yeah. So I'll do my best and what I want to say is like every DAP that you see in the web 3 space is taking data off the blockchain and conveying information to users, right? So without a DAP kind of doing that for us, a dashboard or a report or some data um maybe it's an infographic whatever it is they have found that data on the blockchain. They've taken some effort and some time to convey that information to you. They have to make a decision. They have to make a decision of like okay as Nick said a moment ago blockchains are easy to write to but they're hard to read. So, do we want to build an internal reading mechanism that we'll run ourselves? We'll invest in it. We'll we'll get a team. We'll get the technology, whatever we need to do to read the blockchain data such that we're always displaying up-to-date, accurate information to our users who come to us for information about what's going on on the blockchain. Well, as it turns out, that's a complicated problem, right? Uh how so? Well, there's a lot of blockchains, right? So now you got this team and you're like, you know, go figure out how to index, that is retrieve data from the blockchain and display it to our users. It's like, well, what about this new blockchain? What about the, you know, 3,000 over there? All these different blockchains every week. So they they have to make some trade-offs and it gets expensive and super cumbersome. So number one, they don't want to expand the team. It was just created to uh provide a, you know, solution or a service to their users, but it's a heavy operational investment. So those types of teams eventually either because they scale to the point where they don't want to pay for that infrastructure anymore or any other variety of reasons. Maybe their team isn't uh fast enough or maybe they just can't get enough of the different blockchains. So they have to make a decision about a partnership like who are we going to use then to read blockchain data so that we can do our magic and display it to our users. And this is really where the graph sort of historically has entered the conversation. Um and you have options at this point. It's a fork in the road moment, right? As a DAP, we're taking that as our perspective here. You can choose a centralized solution and and there are centralized competitors to the graph who will have you sign, you know, a terms of uh and conditions agreement. Um they have all their sort of SAS-like operational um characteristics and attributes. you can choose one of them or you could say no, you know, we kind of want to stick with that web 3 ethos and we want to go with something that's decentralized and and there's a lot of reasons why you might do that. So, for example, if you go with a SAS partner um and their servers go down, you go down. Um if you go with a SAS partner and they change their terms of conditions, they're like, "Hey, you know, we're going to increase prices or hey, we don't like the fact that your DAP is displaying this type of data or whatever it might be." um they can sort of turn off and turn on services and anybody who's been around long enough knows that there's a lot of web two type of uh entities that have done this to users, right? They kind of rug you because they change the way they do things. Um the benefit of going with a decentralized provider like the graph is you don't have to deal with some of that stuff, right? So any user of the graph doesn't have to sign a contract or terms and conditions type of thing. Um there is tons of redundancy because as I mentioned a moment ago um there are indexers or node operators at the graph. There's a bunch of them and they're worldwide. So there's a tremendous amount of redundancy and we don't you know uh the graph and nobody at the graph sort of owns that data, right? So um if you work with a centralized uh solution and you get sideways with them, you probably have to have a debate about well is that my data or your data? This sucks. I have a DAP. I'm displaying information, but like I need to take that with me, right? If you're not going to be a great partner, I I'm at the graph like it's your data. There's no, you know, ownership. So, um the way I've sort of taught it to people uh who want to think about it is, you know, when you use Google, you can search it for free. And it's kind of like, well, what's their business model then? If I can go to google.com and just like search the internet web 2 for free, how are they monetizing this? And we've learned over time, sadly, that we're the we're the product, right? they're monetizing our data. Uh at the graph that that doesn't happen. You actually pay for the queries and they're incredibly you know cost-effective for an organization who wants to scale and have a strong infra uh partner. And so instead of I guess turning the uh the user into the product and the data into the product, it kind of returns to the original thesis that really you can just kind of make the query uh the product and it safeguards sort of all the participants. And so that's um how I'd answer that question. Sort of an overview of why someone would select a graph. Of course, you can go on the website, you can look at some of the benchmarking studies, but there's all these things related to uptime and redundancy and things like that that are super important to these dev teams. So, it's not just like that decentralization centralization tradeoff. It's also about the performance of the tech. And uh you can you can kind of read through all that, but the graph does a great job there as well. So, it's really important that if you're going to launch a decentralized project and go head-to-head with centralized competitors, that performance is up to snuff and that that's not a trade-off that you ask the users to make. &gt;&gt; I'm not sure if there's been kind of like this shining moment yet, but like with Bitcoin, we had a moment for like why Bitcoin um without getting into the politics, there was the time when the truckers in Cal in Canada had their bank accounts frozen and you use Bitcoin to pay for things. Um there was a moment when AWS regions went down and images couldn't be seen um in inside of like websites because the the webs the centralized storage solution wasn't up and so that was another reason why a decentralized service was better than its centralized entity. Have we had in your tenure at the graph, have we had one of these moments where the graph provided something that its centralized competitor couldn't yet or is have we just not had that kind of like implosive moment from our centralized competitors? You know, it's a great question and I wish I had some of my colleagues that have been around maybe a little longer than I have. So, I'm not going to provide like that amazing answer, but it's the right question. And the way I sort of think about this without knowing if there was that moment or not, you know, decentralization's tricky because there's a lot of people who say, you know, philosophically, the market doesn't care. Devs don't care. They just want the cheapest, fastest product. So, you know, you got to check those boxes. But decentralization does matter. And the bet that the graph ecosystem is making is that it may not matter to you now, but we assure you over time it's going to matter a lot. And the question is when do you want to come to that realization after you've come under contract and built this infrastructure with a centralized partner who you fall out of uh you know alignment with or who goes sideways or there's some worldwide event that uh causes sort of catastrophic technological impact that your project your people um your users are impacted by or do you just sort of want to understand at present now that even though the market might be slow to appreciate the benefits of decentralization that you want to be ahead of that curve and sort of protect yourself. Um, and so again, I don't think this is primarily a graph thing. I mean, in the context of getting blockchain data access, we're in that sector of the industry, but a lot of organizations um in and around web 3 are trying to make it more clear to the broader community about how important decentralization is. And my suspicion I don't know uh but my sus suspicion is that as the regulatory environment environment evolves and we get more clarity on what governments sort of think about decentralization and how they start classifying these types of things within this industry a lot of people are going to care a lot more right so if the US government says something declarative about Bitcoin or Ethereum on the premise because it's decentralized I think a lot of people wake up and be like oh there's there's even sort of government um clarity and uh what some sort of importance leverage to projects that are actually decentralized. So yeah, the graph is holding tight to that ethos. Um and we're not going to let go of that. &gt;&gt; I love it. Uh decentralization is a lot like the police. You don't you don't care about it till you need it. &gt;&gt; Yeah. Yeah. It's exactly right. It's exactly right. &gt;&gt; Um cool. So what's kind of like um various different ecosystems have various different roles and needs of their foundations. So what's kind of like the graph foundation's role and what is the need that it fulfills for the ecosystem? &gt;&gt; Yeah. So the foundation has a very clear mandate and we are very missiondriven. So everyone on the foundation team really adheres to our mandate and we make decisions every day. be predicated on that mandate and bring it to life. And so we understand that our responsibility, our mission is to steward the health and growth of the graph network and the ecosystem. And we do that through you know several levers. So the foundation obviously manages a treasury. So there's a funding mechanism to the things we do. Uh we want to support and grow and um lift up projects within the ecosystem. Um we want to also offer certain types of legal or governance type support. So for example um there are a lot of questions related to the logo and the website and the domain and these different types of things even sort of down to the technology of the licensing and the IP and so a foundation um and particularly the graph foundation plays a ve very important role and providing clarity around um those types of questions and then there's like this operational bucket and it's really hard to describe I'll do my best um but you know basically a foundation has to take stock of the ecosystem as a whole and the partners uh that are uh contributing in there. And it has to identify specific operational uh tasks or activities that it needs to backfill either until the ecosystem matures such that somebody else steps in there or maybe you hang on to that for a long time because you need to provide some stewardship or mentorship or some like consulting like uh engagement there. So there are different I would call like business functions that the foundation itself performs or back fills um and that changes over time right there was a period of time where we provided certain types of services and then uh we don't provide those anymore and maybe we provide other ones and every foundation approaches this a little bit differently even the graph sort of originally had a specific thesis on that. So our goal is to like deliver that mandate through clarity on sort of our uh our funding responsibilities that legal governance type of oversight and stewarding and then those operational uh functions that we want to backfill support or provide leadership on. And we do all of that with sort of this wrapper of work streams that drive community engagement, drive community ownership. And so we don't work in isolation. We're constantly doing all of these things to support and unleash the broader ecosystem. Um, I think ultimately every foundation wants to kind of be quiet and not noticed as much and you want all the builders up in front on the front row getting all the attention and we work really hard at the foundation to to make that happen. &gt;&gt; Yeah. the the ecosystem I cut my teeth in is the NEO ecosystem. And years ago, we did an interview with someone working in the business development branch of the foundation. And we asked him, where do you see Neo, the the BD branch in 10 years? And he said, hopefully not here because the ecosystem has like grown to be able to provide these resources to itself on its own. So, I've always found that to be kind of like an interesting thing in blockchain ecosystems is that foundations are inherently designed to hopefully work themselves out of a job. Yeah. &gt;&gt; Um, and so like congratulations, you've won. You're out of a job. Um, but &gt;&gt; in the meantime, you have to get there. So, what does being a team lead for the Graph Foundation mean? What what are you tasking yourself with? What are your priorities? What are your day-to-day? How do you kind of like structure the things that you think are important for the for the foundation on behalf of the ecosystem? &gt;&gt; Yeah, so um I took the role in January of 2025 and it was a big jump for me and I met with the two prior leads. So we had uh leadership at the foundation that were the OG leaders. Gen one they were there at the start and they became really great mentors and advisers as I studied out you know am I the right person for the task and you know what is it that the team needs and so they've made themselves available ongoing. Um, they're very well known. Eva Bayin and uh a gentleman by the name of Martin. He he likes security, so I'll just say Martin. Everybody from the graph will know who I'm talking about. But yeah, very well known in the broader uh web 3 space and have been incredibly instrumental in supporting me in my role. I would say, you know, they gave me some latitude to redefine that uh role a little bit and and how I wanted to go about it. Uh, I think they had one approach and it was that go going from zero to one type of approach and I think they had the right skills for that and they definitely, you know, burned the candle at both ends to get us from zero to one. Um, I think they look to me uh my background and sort of what I what I might be good at as maybe that that leader that needs to come in and and apply some more traditional management, a little bit more structured. You know, I've heard a couple people snicker that I'm a little bit corporaty. Uh, which I don't like, by the way, but uh, that is what it is. But I think the point I'm making is is that maybe just evolve a little bit the foundation and that leadership role. So, I really see my role as team lead number one is making sure that from a mandate perspective, the foundation team is fully aligned. We understand our mandate. We understand how if we're if we're to steward the health and growth of the network and the ecosystem, how we do that via funding, legal governance and our operational um as you mentioned BD, whatever it is, our operational um functions that we have in house and then I think you know setting strategy and driving alignment among the the team but also all the contributors within the ecosystem is really important. So I think based on what I can tell sort of with throughout the industry, foundations have varying appetites for offering leadership, offering a strong uh strategic voice or trying to orient uh different teams towards a specific goal. I would argue, but there's a lot smarter people out there than me that we've sort of learned over the last call it year or two that foundations really need to do that more proactively. It's not a it's not a centralization risk. It's just like foundations should do that. And so, um, I've leaned into that. So, uh, if I were around the dinner table with my family reporting on my new gig and and sort of what I was working on, I would say I'm taking the team that exists, a lot of whom are OGs, we're going to professionalize a little bit the way we work together and we work with people within the ecosystem, and I'm just going to apply some of my experiences to take it to the next level as best as I can. &gt;&gt; What do um, ecosystem growth initiatives look like? Are you finding that a lot of projects just need an indexer and they're coming to you naturally? So maybe BD isn't uh I don't want to say a strong focus, but maybe like BD doesn't have as much of a an emphasis as it might in other ecosystems. Um or are you finding that you need to incubate uh projects um experience um psych uh by bringing in um grassroots devs or grassroots small scale projects? How how does that look um from your perspective in growing the ecosystem and how you reach out to people and how you bring them in? &gt;&gt; Yeah. Um well, unfortunately some of this is philosophical, right? So, it's just sort of like how does Nick approach growth and what's the playbook he's going to adopt? And there's a variety of ways to go about this. In fact, before I became team team lead, I was um I was uh uh head of growth or growth lead, I forget the title at the moment, but um I did a whole report on and I went back and looked at McKenzie, Bane, Boston Consulting, and a host of other books that I sort of had read over the years. And I I pulled out all the different growth playbooks or vectors that um the consulting the folks that actually get paid to to to drive growth what they came up with and you know I was able to kind of give a presentation. So I had before I became team lead some ideas around what growth should look like and in the playbooks available to us. I think for me the way to think about it is I sort of saw when I was moving into my role sort of twofold. Number one is I wanted to implement some of that like I said professionalization operational stuff and that's tough right nobody outside of um the ecosystem is sort of seeing the graph getting a little more tight on processes and the way the foundation works with core devs the way the core devs work with other core devs and things like that. So um it was tough and you know we still got work to do but making sure that uh we had very airtight and logic and you know battle tested operational um excellence within within the graph ecosystem was priority number one and then to get more to your question how then with this new foundation this more you know uh Nick's approach to to professionalize the foundation how then do we begin growing and I think the graph's an interesting point like a lot of uh projects within the ecosystem. Um it has some legacy investments and thesis that worked in our case worked well. Um we got a ton of thought leadership. Everybody knows the graph. The brand is very well recognized and it's this question of like well what do we want to do next? And my opinion on that is like the graph as I said earlier it's a pioneer like it stood up DeFi. It introduced standards to the industry and it's in the DNA of the graph, its founders, all the contributors within the ecosystem to be pioneers and so we are working on uh a lot of things that I think will sort of doubleclick on the fact that the graph at its heart is a pioneer and so I expect new technology to be announced to the world uh soon uh that I think a lot of people will find interesting. If I had to sort of say what it is without saying what it is, I would just say, you know, the graph understands that there needs to be a new approach to indexing blockchain data and the way in which we interact with it and uh who better to do it than the folks that launched it and learned all the lessons along the way. So uh the graph is looking at growth through new technology and we're interested in other market segments. So for a long time like a lot of industry participants we all targeted the dev community but the um industry is becoming a little bit more segmented and it's becoming a little bit more you have to be a little more thoughtful and deliberate about which segments of the market you're going to target. So as an example everybody's talking about institutions right now who you know who's coming from Wall Street to participate and what are these uh institutional type users going to look for in technology. There's also this bolt-on persona of like enterprise users which is obviously a flavor too different from institutions. And so uh the graph is actively working on uh forming some institutional and enterpris uh users and bringing them to the network. Uh again without saying too much I'll say that it's been amazing to see some of the traction we've had there. And the big surprise for me, by the way, is seeing this new um market segment emerge was big-time players, names that a lot of people would probably recognize and know. I'm talking like from Tradfi, institutional type people already being familiar with the graph and familiar with the tech. And that was an amazing moment for me uh and members of the ecosystem to be like, "Oh, this isn't a cold call. Um these folks know who we are." So, we're super excited about growth in different market segments and we're paying a lot of attention to that institutional enterprise segment uh segments and uh and we're going to offer some new tech pretty soon. So, I think a lot of things coming for sure. &gt;&gt; Very cool. I guess from as we zoom out and and wrap up um the the graph is a very unique portion of the web 3 tech stack in terms of infrastructure and I think that that shapes the way in which you working in that ecosystem are able to get your finger on the pulse for what's happening with blockchain crypto web 3 whatever and also to kind of like envision in a different way where the puck is going. Um I from the outside looking in uh have very different opinions for how the institutions are coming in and the banks and fini and all that. Um from your perspective from the very unique niche in which you fill where are we going as an industry? You've kind of dropped some hints into how you're planning to prepare the graph to be ready to meet this next iteration, but like in 2 to 3 years from your perspective, where are we going to be with cryptocurrencies and blockchain networks? How prevalent is it going to be in our day-to-day lives? &gt;&gt; Yeah, I mean, I I always want to sound super smart and to say the most amazing thing, but I'll just be honest with you and and you know, those that are tuning in, I have no idea. and every nobody knows. We're all guessing. And the problem of asserting like a definitive answer or or saying something super declarative is the dynamic nature of what's going on here. You have all these institutional users showing up and expressing interest in what's going on here. Um you have an evolving um governance or or or I meant regulatory environment. So that's new. What's going on there and how does that shake out? And then you have just the dayto-day nuts and bolts demand uh from people all across the world for a solution and in the in the types of things that this industry provides. Right. So um you've interviewed a lot of guests. I'm sure you've done some out of country guests. I was always shocked when I talked to people that were outside of the US is which is where I'm based to hear how reliant they were on crypto as a hedge against um inflationary risk or to ease the ability to transact just to do business. So this is a really dynamic pro um problem set. I can't say anything super smart about it. Um we're watching we're we're trying to kind of get out ahead of these things. I think AI is another component of this uh that's super interesting right so how does that impact not only what we're trying to build with the at the industry level but sort of the participants like what is a software engineer and a dev in 10 years from now like how does that look um I'm non-technical so I would we would need to ask one of them h how this is impacting them but my from what I'm seeing it's had a huge impact so I think we should pay attention to the regulatory environment I think we should pay attention to um stable coins, real world assets, some of these buzzwords that we're hearing. I think we should pay attention to AI and how that's going to shape the industry and and the role it's going to play. And I think the pioneers within web 3, ecosystems like the graph, they'll figure out what they need to do and they'll they'll do what they've always done, which is develop new tech um at the bleeding edge of what's possible. in in a world where everyone has a hot take, having an honest answer where you just say, "I don't know what just we're just trying to meet meet demand as it comes up." I think that that's um a great answer in and it of itself. Um kind of like zooming out, the last question I want to ask, I know I know might be hard, but I know that you can you can kind of pull an answer um pretty quickly. You you've been in the space full-time now for four years. I remember I had all these visions of sugar plums and fairies when I first got into the crypto space and I just thought there were all these amazing things that were going to happen and then reality ground me down and here we are eight years later and some things have come to to fruition a lot of things haven't. So drawing back on your experience over the past four years, um the question I want to ask is what's one thing that has been delivered that you thought was going to be delivered when you came into the space and what's one thing that you thought was going to be delivered but hasn't yet done so. &gt;&gt; Sure. So I think on the delivered side it was AI. I mean the graph has a core dev team and one of the graph founders has been thinking a lot about that intersection of AI and blockchain data and I think the graph is starting to do a lot of interesting things there. Um for any listener that's like well what what is that? Go check out um Yaniv Tall and his team at Geo Geo their work on knowledge graphs and what they're building at Geo. uh it's a thesis on that intersection between AI and blockchain data and as I said we had like a core dev team at the graph uh who for a lot of years was sort of thinking about number one how will AI facilitate the transactions and the participation in the network. So there was a tooling component of it and then they were also approaching this question of like how does AI and blockchain data sort of communicate in the world and how can we facilitate that interaction. So I would say on the firsthand delivery and and something uh the graph was first to the table one of the first to the table on this AI blockchain convergence and the story is far from over. um something that wasn't delivered. I mean I'm not going to have a great answer for this, but I think, you know, I think it's I'm going to I'm going to kind of put two answers on the table here, which is like memecoins, what's going on there? And and what's the intent? And then NFTTS, is that story over? I did a lot of interviews with people on when I was doing my podcast had smart things to say about NFTs, and it wasn't about artwork and stuff like that. it was about land rights and um deeds and working with institutions and so I doubt that story is over yet but yeah where is that like where is the next wave of what an NFT actually secures for an individual and then yeah uh stable coins like what is this and and how is this going to shake out um meme to coins what is this do we need it can it shake out you know I'm very s I'm very critical of those things But um yeah, that's my answer to that. &gt;&gt; Awesome. Well, Nick, uh thank you so much for taking the time to join the Smart Economy podcast today. If somebody listened to this and they want to reach out to you, who do you want to chat with and how can they contact you? &gt;&gt; Yeah, so find me on Twitter. I'm, you know, 22 node on Twitter and reach out to me. You can DM. I check my DMs and yeah, you know, it's been fun to have users and different people reach out to me there. So start there and then yeah if you know anybody in the graph ecosystem that's building any of the core dev teams um and you want to get up todate on some of this tech that I've hinted towards uh definitely reach out to them. They can inform you and of course you can always go to the graph.com you can see all the different products you can get started building your own DAP using the graph with the security and the benefits of building on decentralized infras. So just go to graph.com and plug in there. And lastly congrats on episode 100. I remember exactly my episode and the amount of work that went into to doing that. So, I didn't know before today that I was uh episode 100, but uh because I've been in your shoes, I just want to say major shout out. Keep up the great work. You did a great job today. A fun interview. So, I loved spending time with you and congrats to you and all the people supporting this podcast. I hope there's hundred more. &gt;&gt; Cheers. And if anybody is hungry to get a backlog, a wealth of knowledge and information, go check out the GRT IQ podcast. There's more than 200 episodes for you to dig into and get a sense of the history of what has happened in the graph ecosystem and maybe kind of uh smell the winds for where it's going next. So, thank thank you so much today, Nick, for for your time. Uh this was a fantastic conversation and um congrats on your role at team lead and to the many things that you and your team are going to be building. &gt;&gt; Thank you so much, Dylan. &gt;&gt; Cheers. Thank you so much for tuning in to the Smart Economy podcast. To stay in the loop with all of our latest episodes and insights, head over to www.smarteconomyodcast.com. And don't forget to subscribe to our YouTube channel for all of our video content. If you enjoyed this discussion, please consider showing your support by liking, commenting, and reviewing this episode on your favorite podcasting platform. Your feedback helps us reach more listeners and bring even better content your way. And we'd also love to hear from you. So, please drop a comment on Spotify or YouTube to share what topics you'd like us to cover or who you'd like to see as our next guest. And if you or someone you know might make for an interesting guest, please don't hesitate to reach out. We're always on the hunt for fresh voices and new perspectives. And for our NEO token holders out there, please consider voting for NEO news today as your council representative. We've proudly been serving the NEO ecosystem since 2017 and we'll continue to do so by putting portions of our council rewards directly back into ecosystem growth initiatives. So once again, thank you for taking the time to tune in to the Smart Economy podcast and we will catch you on the next one.