Giving people the tools that they want to use is what this space is all about. And so I'm a user choice maximalist. People should be able to use what they want and we're happy to support them in whatever they choose. Hey everyone, welcome to the Smart Economy podcast where we ask your favorite builders the questions you wish you could ask them yourself. This is a production of neonnewstoay.com and I'm your host Dylan Grabowski. In this episode, we're joined by Sam McFersonen, the CEO of Phoenix Labs, an RND group dedicated to building out the Spark protocol ecosystem. In today's conversation, we discussed the genesis of Maker and its transition into a DAO model. The rebrand of Maker Dow to Sky. Stable coins as crypto's killer use case. Onchain yieldbearing stable coins. Spark as the largest onchain capital allocator. The role of yield from realworld assets. Helping to onboard the next 100x users and so much more. Just a reminder, nothing said on this podcast is a solicitation to buy or sell any tokens and that the guests or a host might hold tokens discussed in any given episode. You can check out a full disclaimer at www.neontoday.com. Also, if you enjoyed this episode, please rate and review it on your favorite podcasting platform and share it with your friends and family. Every rating, review, like, and comment helps us reach more people and bring you more of your favorite guests. With all that said, I really enjoyed speaking with Sam, and I hope you enjoy the conversation, too. Hey everyone, welcome to the Smart Economy podcast. Today, we're joined by Sam McFersonen, the CEO of Phoenix Labs, an R&amp;D group dedicated to building out the Spark Protocol ecosystem. How are you doing today, Sam? I'm doing great. Good to be here. Absolutely. Um, it was really fun to kind of like delve into uh what you're working on with Spark. We were talking earlier that I'm based here in Colorado and I remember years ago in like 2019 going to community events where they were giving out dye to kind of like onboard users into blockchain and and show how stable coins can be used um to purchase things like beer at local events. So, it's really cool to kind of like be talking to someone who was once a part of that ecosystem and is still adjacent. But before we kind of like delve into what Spark is working on and your background in Sky, I'm curious to just hear a little bit more about your background uh because it's super interesting. You've got a variety of verticals. You were working um I don't even know what what Mother Tinsumi wiring is. You worked in the gaming space um and then you also worked at Sandboxed. So before your kind of like intro into Sky, can you share what your background was and how you landed into working in the blockchain and crypto space? Yeah, sure. So I've been a software engineer for uh it's like probably about 20 years now. Basically all my life. And before the blockchain, I was a video game developer. So I worked on a small company. We didn't really release any big titles, but uh we were working on a startup. But then I kind of got sucked into the DeFi world and I haven't really looked back since. So how I got started in the space, I think like most people I I joined in in like this 2017 ICO cycle just hobbyist investor like I I was aware of Bitcoin like for a while before that but it was really the smart contracts that got me interested in the space as a software engineer. And so Ethereum was like the first thing where I'm like actually kind of more deeply getting involved. And then I think like most people do in the ICO cycle, they're just like looking down the charts, they want to find some high upside uh stuff and that looks interesting. And so, you know, in a sea of like Dentacoin and all this craziness, I I found like Maker and I'm like, "Ah, there's a product. It makes sense. Stable coin, uh there's cash flows." So, me as a fund like a value investor, I I gravitated towards this. And so just longtime lurker on the forum there for like a couple years just learning digging into all the smart contracts and how how this stuff works. Um and then I joined the protocol in an official capacity in May 2021. I joined the protocol engineering team and this is actually the inception of the DAO taking over the reigns from maker foundation. So up until about that point, the maker foundation was like running the protocol and then there was this transition phase to the DAO. So uh I never actually worked for the foundation. I came in like most of the other people actually came from the foundation and then they joined in these what what we called core units but I I joined in from from the community. Yeah, that's super cool. I actually got into the blockchain space as a token speculator as well in 2017. And it was largely because I'd like done all my research on index funds and 401ks and did everything I could to figure out what like traditional investments were. And then everybody kept calling Bitcoin a scam. So I was like, "All right, why is it a scam?" And I orangepilled myself. So yeah, it was it was a super cool time. I actually never got involved in Ethereum back then because CryptoKitties clogged the network and it was too expensive to use and so the market was kind of like hungry for different blockchain networks that you could tokenize and and launch ICOs on top of. Um, we're in a completely different world from then though. So, were you building on Ethereum back then? Were you were you like testing out smart contracts or were you just purely from like an investor's perspective and and just kind of like playing around in blockchain back then just by like acquiring tokens and checking out different networks? Yeah, so I mean hobbyist investing was the first uh point of entry. Um but then learning how to do smart contracts. I I started that in a serious way in 2020. So I started learning solidity. I wrote uh a few of the contracts that actually went into production at at Maker um shortly after. So I wrote like a flash minting module. I think that was one of the first that I did as well as the PEG stability module which uh it's actually been replaced about a year ago, but it was in production for quite a while holding uh billions of uh USDC back in 2020. Yes, we uh I built that as part of the community and then um yeah, I went into production and like I was like I was like this is the coolest thing ever seeing stuff uh that you build like you know then suddenly cussing billions of dollars it's a little bit surreal. Yeah, I was I was pretty pretty hooked on it from there on out. What was um the kind of like mental gymnastics I guess would be the best way to put it that you had to go or maybe the mental hurdles of working for a DAO when you came from working from like a centralized entity? Was there like some kind of like psyching yourself up and talking yourself into going to work in this crazy web 3 blockchain paradigm or or was it just like an opportunity that you were willing to jump at and being an employee of a DAO was just kind of like part of the game? No, actually quite the opposite. I've been an entrepreneur all my life, so risk and, you know, doing unique things is like in my blood. So I I'm quite comfortable in these types of situations. It's actually I've I've basically never had like a more traditional job. I've always like had startups, you know, with varying degrees of success over the years. So, yeah, working in a DAO is just like it Yeah, it wasn't that much of an adjustment. I'm very comfortable in a in a place where like we're forging new territory basically. So, that that's what's exciting to me. Cool. And so other than the projects that you just mentioned that your your contracts that were launched when you were at Maker Dow tenure was kind of like during the bareish market following post FTX. So what was just like the mentality of what you were working on during that time and what were just kind of like the vibes of being at a Dow kind of like during a bare market. Yeah. So I like actually when uh we started it was like just as the at the start of like the 2021 bull. So like we went through like a full bull bear cycle with uh when I was at protocol engineering and I mean I must say I much prefer bare markets like the bull market stuff as an engineer you're just getting like pulled in so many directions. We have to do this. We have to do this. Like it just it's like a break neck speed thing. And like although I mean obviously we never compromised on safety. It's just like it can be kind of a stressful environment, especially with a lot of uh projects that were taking massive shortcuts and just being completely reckless, you know, FTX, Teruna, this kind of stuff. So, yeah, I thought that was super annoying personally. And then like once it's all over, you're like, okay, now we can actually just build like real long-term products that are sustainable and we have peace and quiet for a few years. So, I much prefer the bare bear part of the cycle. Yeah, I do too. Um, I spend a lot of my time being a content creator on socials. And during bull runs, I I always equate it to, if you probably might not be able to relate to this, but before I worked in in crypto, I was working in an office job and we had cubicles. And I always equated it to like having the cubicle by the water cooler where everybody would just like meet and talk and be loud and ruin your flow and your concentration. And during bull runs, that's what it's like. Everybody's chasing the shiny thing. you feel like an idiot for for not chasing the shiny thing too. There's a new shiny thing the next day. So, they do say like bare markets are for builders and I 100% agree. Are you noticing that there's a different appetite for stable coins and stable coin yield in the various different kind of like market cycles we have or are kind of like the demand for stable coins maturing beyond like the the bull bust cycles? Yeah, I think like stable coins are one of the strongest uh product market fits that has that crypto has currently and it's like it's already proven itself in my in my books. Like through the bull and bear cycles, you see stable coin supply just going up and to the right. There's some small dips, but it's like it's just up and up and up because it's pretty clear like for people in uh third world countries who maybe don't have access to banking, they want to hold their money in a store of value such as the US dollar or international uh money transfers. Um I don't know like I don't know how many listeners have done this themselves but it's like it's it's it's crazy like it's just such a slow system. So for these use cases and you know payments and stuff like that I think stable coins have already established themselves. So uh where we're more sitting with uh USDS is on the onchain yieldbearing side of things. So Tether and Circle are are doing quite well with uh building the high liquidity portion of of this, but we're aiming uh the S the yield bearing SUSDS version of of USDS as the place where you can park your your idle funds. So you could be earning at least the risk-free rate and sometimes during uh bull market conditions, you could be earning uh sometimes even double digit uh percentage. Yeah. And so I understand that crypto is a global phenomena, but we're based in North America and currently there's stable coin legislation going through the US. Like it or not, like the US can wreak havoc on the rest of the world for builders or it can make it easier for builders to to build. And so from your perspective on what Spark is working on and maybe even if you can just wear your hat for the time that you were at Maker Dow, what does something like the Genius Act or the Stable Act going through American Congress mean for for how you build? I I'm not like an expert in the legislation or in the bills, but there is a part that is trying to ban yield bearing stable coins. And so what what is from your perspective like how much weight does this actually have? Is it something you're holding your breath over? Will there still be a role for uh yield bearing stable coins? If one of these bills goes through and is unfavorable to them? Yeah. So first I want to differentiate the different kind kinds of stable coins. So this bill is uh aimed at fiat back stable coins. So this is like your circles and your tether and stuff like that. products like USDS are fundamentally onchain uh products and so they don't interface directly with with the banking system. So yeah, just first and foremost that legislation is aimed at those stable coins. I you know I've seen this banning of yield bearing component. This is clearly introduced by the banking lobby um because they want to keep the margins uh where they take advantage of depositors within traditional finance. So uh I like the general move towards uh embracing crypto making sensible regulations. I think this is uh very very good for the consumer but I do not see banning uh forwarding yield to users as anything but just a money grab by the by the banking lobby. Yeah. I mean that's who we're here to replace. Um because centralized power can kind of be corrupted. Absolutely. Um, if we look at like 2008 and and the financial crisis and the housing crisis, like that was spurred on by centralized financial institutions. Do you think that in 2025 we still have this like appetite, this desire for people to escape like the traditional system and chase something onchain like uh SUSDS? What's like the appetite for onchain access to stable coins uh versus like custodial solutions like USDC or USDT? Are we starting to see an inflection point where more people are choosing to come on chain and leverage these decentralized stablecoin solutions or are we still kind of like climbing that hill? Yeah, I mean we're definitely still climbing that hill. There's like as much as the industry is growing, we're still small in comparison to Tradfi. But I view stable coins as the black hole that's uh sucking up everything into uh DeFi and we're just kind of at the start of it. So it all starts with the tokenization of the US dollar which is uh you know what these stable coins are. And then uh with the rising interest rates you start this is why you see the growth in this uh next next adjacent thing which is tokenized treasury bill products things like black rockck bidd and others um because of the high interest rate environment this is precisely why these are just growing so so quickly but it's just going to continue to snowball and move down the risk curve. So, uh, tokenized corporate debt, um, and eventually getting to private credit. All these things are eventually going to come on chain one by one. Um, and so I'm a firm believer that, uh, everything will be tokenized in the long run just because of the massive efficiency improvements, um, in in in blockchain technology. So, for something like Trifi, it's uh, it's incredibly clunky, like, you know, sending around calling people and sending spreadsheets and stuff like that. It's just it's crazy. It's very old school with the blockchain, you know, you could send somebody any amount of money across the entire world like within you have just basically just waiting for settlement on Ethereum or whatever blockchain uh you're on. So you're talking about like 15 to 20 minutes basically at most for settlement. So this sort of improvement in and of itself compared to Trifi where you're talking about T+1 T plus two which means it takes days and then it's not operating on the weekend. like this is just so old school and maybe you think why does this matter but these inefficiencies translate into friction on the economy and so you kind of see this as just the economy being less uh productive basically so at crypto like I think this is something that's very clear what the path to solving this is and I I think it's it's inevitable at this stage yeah I had a very frustrating experience this weekend where for some reason out of nowhere I was just locked out of my bank account and I couldn't go online to transact or to send money around and they had to make me call customer service to give them my password even though there's an online portal and I could have just accessed it from the same computer from the same network that I'd accessed it for years prior. Um, and that's just as a retail user that's just as one Joe Schmo, you know, I can only imagine the inefficiencies that arise at more of an institutional scale. So you mentioned Black Rockck and you mentioned all these various different sort of verticals of tokenization. I'm curious to hear how you're looking at that in terms of which kind of like tokenized treasuries, which kind of tokenized privatized debt can be leveraged to earn yield on behalf of yield bearing stable coins. If you go to uh Sparks liquidity layer, and I know we're kind of getting ahead of of we're putting the the horse in front of the cart here, but one of the largest allocated assets distributed is Black Rockck's Biddle Fund, and it's the USDC in there. So, what are the relationships with like these new tokenized RWAs and how they can be leveraged by liquidity solutions like Spark? As you mentioned, the Spark liquidity layer is the newest product that we've come out with. uh it just launched in November of last year but already it's scaled up to $3.6 6 billion and we are the largest onchain capital allocator and the basic idea there is that uh we have this capital to deploy and we want to basically just have every opportunity available and so historically onchain has been very isolated from other things such as you know exchanges or treasury bill products or other RWAs and so the revenue that was being generated by uh Maker DAO at the time now rebranded to Sky was largely being driven by onchain over collateralized crypto lending. So this is you lock up some bitcoin or some ETH and then you can take out a loan against that. This is how maker was created. So I think maybe a lot of people are familiar with this but as uh the space has matured we just get all these new options available and really it's just been like going faster and faster in the past few years in particular. So uh black rock bidd is a good example of this. Uh this is the treasury bill yield. So instead of having funds parked in stable coins earning nothing, you park it in black rockck bidd and then you can earn the treasury bill rate which tradfi terms this is known as the risk-free rate. So it's like the risk is essentially the same as holding like cash and so you might as well be getting this yield. It makes no sense not to be getting this yield basically. So because of all these opportunities that are available, the Spark liquidity layer is able to deploy capital at you know the scale of billions of dollars into each of these and continuously look for where the best opportunity is and rebalance the portfolio even on the next block in the blockchain. So like we have uh we've been rapidly expanding this. We have support for uh three tokenized treasury bill products, Black Rockck Biddle, Superstate USDB and uh Centrifuge uh Janice Henderson JTRSY. Um so that's at the tokenized T bill portion. There is Sparkland which is you know the bread and butter this uh overcolateralized crypto lending. Uh we this is still the biggest revenue driver for Spark as a whole. So um this is great and it's a strong use case for DeFi. We've also onboarded uh Athena. So this gives access to centralized exchange funding rates. So uh this is people who are taking leverage on perpetual futures these types of products with Bitcoin and ETH. And so there needs to be uh funding on the other side of that. So when people are taking high leverage, the funding rates go up quite high. And so we're able to deploy capital into that to not only allow people to take this leverage in the first place, but also it generates a very good return during bull market conditions. So we can tap into that that way. And then more recently uh we've also onboarded a product called uh Maple Ser USDC. So this is primarily uh Bitcoin lending offchain. So, it's it's kind of the same thing that's being done onchain in products like Sparkland, except this is being facilitated offchain, but this same exact same thing. People uh have their Bitcoin, they lock it up, and then they can take a loan, but this time it's in a custodian, qualified custodian versus uh onchain. Super cool to kind of hear about the products and partners you have. Maple and Centrifuge are former guests of the Smart Economy podcast. So, it's nice to continue to expand our repertoire of um onchain builders and and yield deliverers. Before we kind of like delve into the products and partnerships, let's just take like one quick step back. Let's just start there. What's your what's Phoenix Labs and the relationship with Sky? Yeah, so maybe uh to provide some context on this list of names that you gave. Uh I I recognize it can be a little confusing at times. So, previously everything was in was under Maker Dow. So uh there was the DAO structure and then there's the protocol these two separate things. So in addition to creating one of the first D5 protocols, Maker was also trying out this DAO thing for real at scale. And so I I don't think anybody ever expected the first iteration of Dows to work perfectly, right? So there was uh it was a good like first attempt but um there was recognized pretty quickly there was not uh going to work to be able to like a govern a protocol at scale to have this like token weighted vote on everything type structure. And so there was a proposal that passed called the uh endgame proposal which would restructure things such that you could think of it I think the best analogy is that uh maker then now transition to the brand under sky. So Sky is the new version of Maker would function more like a a central bank in that it would not be making uh any decisions really on where to allocate funds, what growth initiatives to do. Um instead it would outsource that to these uh subdows uh which are also called stars. And so Spark is one of these stars and there are going to be multiple of these stars that are focused on different uh niches. And so with this structure you get specialization. So Spark is uh focused we are uh you know engineer heavy team at Phoenix lab and so we can focus on like a specifically Ethereum EVM L2 type uh space and others that are maybe experts at things like uh you know Solana SVM there could be a separate team working on that. So in this structure, Sky can issue wholesale credit to these stars such as Spark. And so uh we're able to borrow from Sky and then deploy it somewhere else and then there'll be some spread on this and then the uh net interest there is uh retained to spark. So the relations like you can think of it like central bank commercial bank although I don't want to say it's exactly like that but I think it's a useful analogy then just to make sure I understand like the way in which spark is able to pay for itself to exist is by using the revenue that's generated from the assets that are borrowed from the sky ecosystem and then deployed onto like spark liquidity layer sparkland things of this nature. Yes, that's exactly right. And like one of our main KPIs you can see on this uh like data.sspark.fi website is we have the APY there. So we have 3.6 billion deployed and it's earning 4.85%. And so it's it's the Spark liquidity layer's job to basically get as much possible uh APY on that capital as possible. This is the design of the system. It's going so it's it's one of the most advanced uh capital allocation systems that exists within DeFi. all for the purpose such that you can deposit into something like uh SUSDS or uh SUSDC and you'll be earning this yield on your USDS and you can you can you don't have to worry about all the complexities of DeFi. You just kind of set it and forget it and know that we're working on your behalf uh to deliver the best yield possible. How is this 4.85% APY distributed? Is it distributed to Spark token holders? Um is it distributed to just people who contribute uh various different stables to the liquidity layer? Yeah, so this is protocol revenue but more or less you can think of it going mostly to holders. So the uh SUSDS yield right now is 4.5% and we're able to generate slightly higher than that and the market is like it's picking up a little bit but it's still relatively dead. We basically have this system in place that when the uh rates start going up everywhere, we're in prime position to basically just tap into all of that across all the opportunities in DeFi, CFI, and Trady. So that that yield will scale up as as the market goes. And so you're uh you as a depositor like again, you don't have to worry about it. You don't have to worry about chasing yield or anything like that. Like we're doing that uh on your behalf. you could help me and the listeners kind of like correlate external markets that drive the the interest rate or the or the market for stables. What would that be? I mean like if for instance if you look at like high levels of custodial or non-custodial exchanges you see there's a lot of trading on like days of max fear and so a lot of rewards are distributed to like DEX token holders on that day because there was an external event uh fear that drove people to trade. What are the sort of like correlations with external markets that benefit the interest rate that you were just talking about? Yeah, I mean for interest rates it's driven by in crypto like by far speculation. So when people expect the prices to go go up in particular, this causes people to borrow as much money as possible and buy more of the token to to get leverage. So we're lending this leverage, right? And so there's a finite amount of stable coins in this in in in DeFi, like you know, it's on the order of a couple tens of billions that are actively sitting in these yield bearing products. Um and so that's a finite amount of capital if somebody's uh like you know only so much can be borrowed by people on centralized exchanges and uh in DeFi lending and stuff like that. So eventually it just it runs out and so once it starts approaching this running out that's what you see as rising interest rates. The rates have to go up to kind of cool down the market because you can't run out entirely or else you get you get things like um you know DPEGs and stuff like that. So to keep the whole system safe, you have to raise the interest rates to curb the excess behavior basically. And this is true for like everywhere basically, you know, this is like banks do this like Yeah. Were there any kind of like valuable lessons learned or kind of any interesting perspectives that you were able to glean from how crypto markets and and borrow lend markets reacted to the recent kind of like hyper downfall that we saw um as a result of President Trump's tariffs. We saw like massive market dumps. This was one of those times in the blockchain space where we really see if your code operates as it's supposed to. So, were there any kind of like interesting insights that you and your team were able to glean as a result of like this kind of pure uh peak FUD moment that we saw in Q2 of 2025? Yeah, I'm going to be honest. At this point, it's actually pretty routine. Like, we've gone through this even way more extreme stuff. I would say actually the most extreme event we went through was the Teral Luna DPEG because there was I think at this at the time uh die was about 10 billion market cap and it was like two billion like about 20% of the deposits lag uh were were wiped out like and it was perfect the protocol even behaved perfectly fine then. So yeah, we've been through many of these uh like really really sort of peak fear events, but like at this point I think like uh especially like CDP lending is like there's actually been no bad debt over the like all the many years of operating. So uh it's probably like one of the safest ways to get access to crypto speculation uh leverage yield. It's just tried and true. And so at this point, you know, yeah, we watch things all the time, of course, uh, but it's it's, you know, it's routine in crypto at this stage, I would say. Um, Maker was probably like one of the first real world or I guess maybe like the one of the first projects that people who operate in borrow lend and in real world traditional institutions. This was one of the first times that we saw like a real use case for why blockchain, why leverage open source code? And it's because we can kind of like do borrow lend according to math. And so we have this problem in the crypto space where old things aren't shiny and sexy anymore and they lose market attention. And so this was always kind of like my thought process into why Maker Dow rebranded into Sky. Where am I wrong? there there's got to be more for the rebrand other than we're going to slap a new shiny sticker on something that that's been working for years. Um, what was the purpose of of changing the identity of one of like the longest running most realworld usable onchain apps basically? Yeah. So uh the reason for the rebrand primarily is um so I know everybody in DeFi loves the die brand and uh they're all used to it but it was sort of a decision that needs to be made for like we're looking at onboarding the next you know 10 100x people into the space and where to like where to position yourself and so not having USD in the name is like an impediment. It's like this extra hurdle you kind of have to explain things to people. So from a product perspective, it's much much easier to just be, you know, the third largest stable coin. And then so you've got USDT, USDC, USDS, right? You know what it is. It's very straightforward of what it is even without having to mention beyond that. So that was the main reason why I in my mind the rebrand was important was preparing for the the next phase of growth. So it's a little bit of short-term pain for long-term gain. Have you seen like an uptick in I guess interest from new retail or institutional users post rebrand? Yes. So you can look at the again like the we like where we're coming from is we want transparency is is the new thing that blockchains can deliver when you're investing in a product like we've uh this dashboard that we put out the data.spark.fi you can literally see every single dollar where it is deployed across DeFi. So this is uh already a big advantage I think we have over like more traditional finance type type venues. Um so in terms of growth yes like as part of the stats like we track like what the number of deposits are and it's like there's been great growth over the past few months. Um the supply stands at about $7 billion right now. Still maintaining our position as the third largest uh stable coin. Um but on the lending side actually we've seen a lot of uh very exciting interest institutions finally uh really want to dive in on the onchain stuff and so this is just been having conversations with lots of big names where like uh it's like they're ready to come on chchain and we much like we're onchain native we want to stay away from trifi stuff as much as possible while we do want to cater to these uh venues if people want to use their own custodian offchain that's fine uh I don't think that's a But you know, as I mentioned, the the CDP system, the overcolateralized lending on chain, this is one of the most robust systems. The fact that you can do instant liquidations, uh it just gives you so much more certainty. And so this combined with the transparency just gives like this is what it like a stable coin is, right? It's like first and foremost, you need to have trust that it's going to hold its value. And so USDS is the the best positioned here in my view. that it's the oldest protocol like the balance sheet is uh is onchain entirely now and you know maybe it's not for everybody but like we just want to build the the most uh the best risk adjusted yield within uh within DeFi. I do want to give you and your team a shout out to the the data dashboard. It is super clean, super sleek. Um it's phenomenal to kind of like see the different partners that you're working with. um an an easy dashboard to capture total revenue and projected annual revenue. And then you also have at the very bottom of the Spark liquidity layer and activity section. And for anybody who's ever used GitHub, um it looks very similar. Uh it's like a heat map that's dedicated to the amount of activity that has been seen. And basically since June of last year, it's just been getting hotter and hotter with more and more events taking place on days. So um what what are these events on the like little activity subsection of the dashboard? What what classifies as something that gets added to this heat map? Yeah, so what you're viewing as an event is uh the system is automated. So it will it's plugged into Sparkland uh a Morpho um fluid and so each of these markets has and multi-chain as well. So like we're on uh Ethereum base arbitum just recently launched optimism and uni chain. So the idea is that we just plug this into all the markets and it just sits there and watches the rates once if somebody borrows on this market we just automatically move more capital in. So effectively the way to think about this is this is solving uh multi-chain and multi- uh lending market liquidity fragmentation within the space which is going to be super important because this is one of the big issues especially with um Ethereum in the L2 road map. I mean it's great for scalability but then you have this trade-off with liquidity fragmentation. So for as much as the capacity of the balance sheet that we have access to, we're actually able to smooth over this issue. So that if you're on uh arbitum, you want to borrow $100 million that that's perfectly fine. You can go ahead and do that and then uh like the Spark liquidity layer will fill that capacity in. So or do it on base, do the same thing, different assets. So like this is uh this is the idea here. What's the what does the world look like then when we have multiple VMs that are being leveraged maybe like move VM, Salana VM in addition to EVM? Because the chains you just mentioned are composable like like base, uni chain, arbitrum, they're all EVM. You mentioned that you work on the Ethereum and the EVM portion of Spark, but you're also uh have a portion of the team that's dedicated to like the Salana ecosystem. So I'm sure there's a part of the road map that has multivvm support. So what does that world look like? Like how far away are we from if I don't want to borrow $100 million on arbitron, what if I want to do it on Salana? How how far away are we from Spark being kind of like the solution for this multi-chain multiVM need? And so we're actively looking at this uh under spark but also as I mentioned there can be other uh stars subdows that are focused on some specialization. So our team is not uh particularly toolled up for the Salana ecosystem but it doesn't mean that market shouldn't be served. So similar systems will be uh deployed as well uh within the Salana ecosystem with a team that is expert in that field you know under a different uh star so that uh sky as a whole USDS you provide this similar experience where people can just come deposited into the yield bearing USDS and then the the the complexities of DeFi are just completely uh taken away and you just can be confident that you're earning the best possible riskadjusted yield whether you want to on Salana or you know one of these newer chains. I think as a user especially someone who's new to DeFi like it can be very confusing and scary especially when you start looking at this isn't what what's in Spark's purview but like liquidity pools you have like these LP tokens and and multiple tokens and impermanent loss. And one of the issues is that it's really easy to kind of like get wrecked learning how to use these these tools. And so something that I found really interesting about the Spark platform is that you have this sandbox where users can play in it before they actually start going on mainnet and borrow lending their assets. So what is the sandbox? Uh what was kind of like the impetus for the tool and are there any kind of like success stories that you've seen from users who maybe made a mistake in the sandbox before they actually deployed it on mainet? It's important that we're dealing with like real people's money here. And so, uh, what we wanted to go for with the Spark app is, uh, not like some marvel of, uh, engineering complexity is that we wanted to just like this is the like, you know, we can distill DeFi into like these core components that it just make it as simple as possible to use. So, the savings product uh, is the is is designed to be exactly that. you know, you have some USDC in your wallet, you have some USDT, you have some USDs. Like I think people are familiar with this and then they just want to get a yield on it. So you just go to Spark Savings and then you try it. But at the same time, uh you know, people don't necessarily want to be throwing around large chunks of money into something that like they're just trying for the first time. So we provide the sandbox uh tools such that we just uh give like you know $10,000 of of every token basically and then you could just mess around with the in on the interface as much as as you want to. And so this is just to get a feel for how this stuff works so you can get more comfortable with it. But first and foremost the website is designed to be the the make it as simple as possible so you you can't you basically can't injure yourself uh in in DeFi. What's the process like then for kind of like getting user feedback when there's a token that's a a volatile price? You usually hear uh people in your corner when number goes up and and you hear the salt boys when number goes down, but because you're operating in kind of a stableish realm, you probably don't necessarily get these super impassioned takes or people reaching out to you on crypto Twitter. So, what's what's like the process for the Spark team then for for communicating with the users? What is user feedback like? Yeah, I mean it's usually quite good actually. Um like such as yourself. Uh the I think the team does a does a really good job and so usually the feedback is is quite positive when I hear it. uh I mean we do get complaints with various things and uh so there's like feedback mechanisms on uh discord and such and so uh the team is made aware of this stuff and you know we try to improve where the rough edges are as much as we can but like as you said uh compared to like something like uh maybe like a unis swap or other decks I'm sure they get all kinds of complaints about like you know I had huge slippage and I lost my money and like this is this just fundamentally a different different product like we're trying to be very boring like it's just like your cash and then you can earn a yield on it and then you can go pay people and stuff like that. Like it's just meant to be like very basic stuff, but we want to be like the the front page of DeFi where it's just it's it's that simple by design. We don't like we don't want to be how to do 10x leverage with this like complex thing like no no just here's here's a place to park your funds and then you can use them when you want to. That that's sort of what we're going for with the website. Do you have a sense of like your user profiles? Because I've always thought that the way I can onboard my dad who thinks that just blockchain and crypto is a scam in general is to show him that he can get better yield on his parked capital maybe through an onchain solution. And so we're seeing number go up and to the right with the amount of TVL and the amount of revenue and the amount of different partners that uh Spark has. Are are you able to get a sense of who these users are? Because one of the problems we have building onchain solutions is that we don't collect KYC and we don't have like population profiles to know what age groups are participating and using our platforms and our apps and our DAPs. So, have you guys been able to like create a unique solution to figure out who your users are and how to capture kind of different markets to bring them on chain? Yeah, I mean, as you say, like DeFi is uh like fundamentally anonymous. I mean, you can kind of do some amount of tracking, but more so uh we're looking at like the different types of users. So, your dad such as you said like maybe doesn't want to use Deep DeFi, and that's okay. We want to be able to provide the tools uh such that people can get access to the yields within DeFi especially during bull markets because I I we think this is a like a very a very good product that I think people in tradi will will want. So we look at it like there's kind of three rings. There's the DeFi native population and I think most people are pretty aware of SUSDS in that space. We go a bit further out in the more of this uh DeFi mullet style where it's like you have some centralized app or exchange or something like that and we want to provide them the backend infrastructure such that they can plug their users in if their stable coins on their platform can just plug in to uh to DeFi in that sense. And so I've seen some awesome like I think there's been a lot of progress in that uh recently. I think earlier this year uh Coinbase launched their uh Bitcoin borrow product. I mean, this is not users lending their stable coins. It's the reverse, but it's still the same sort of style where it's like a DeFi wallet where people can be on the exchange, they can use Coinbase, they like Coinbase, that's fine. They can take their Bitcoin and then they can uh take a loan out against it. Um, and then we are actually supplying uh most of the capital in that market actually. So, Spark is actually 80% of the capital supplied to that Bitcoin borrow product uh that is that Coinbase has launched. And so this style is like kind of more the hybrid in between stage. We're happy to support that as well and we've seen a lot of a lot of growth there. And then there's the next which is like deep trady world. And so we're looking at uh things like ETFs there like where we have Bitcoin ETF, we have an ETH ETF. You know, they'll probably be like a sole ETF I assume. But I think yield bearing stable coins is like a next natural fit for uh ETF where we can export this yield in a in a package that people prefer, you know, in their 401ks, stuff like that. We want to really just meet the market where it is. And I I think this will be incredibly compelling product for those who don't necessarily want to speculate on the price of Bitcoin, but they want to, you know, get a good yield. um you know if they're on fixed income pension funds um the these types of individuals may want some exposure to what is a pretty good and pretty uh safe yield uh uh that comes out of DeFi during bull market conditions in particular. Yeah. So like if you look at the recent shakeup at the Ethereum Foundation, you know, there were there were two new co-executive directors that were brought on and and they're very product focused now and kind of like a team that emerged as part of that shakeup was was Etherealized, which is like this Wall Street branch that's going out to traditional institutions and evangelizing as to why they should build institutional products, tokenized products on top of Ethereum. Do you guys have a similar branch or is there a star perhaps that that was launched in order to kind of like be this trady evangelization team or is that just like not in the purview of the sky umbrella? No, no, we're definitely focused on this. So, at Phoenix Labs and under Spark, uh we're definitely talking to a lot of the major institutions and uh actively looking for doing things such as the the ETF. It's still kind of in a early stages with something like the ETF, but institutional adoption I think is already like I think it's really shifting a lot. We've seen like a lot of interest there. So like my team is doing that and the other teams will do it as well. So like the stars, you know, maybe there can be one that's like focused on that, but the stars in and of themselves are going to do this type of business development like all of them in in in parallel. Yeah. Cool. So, when you're out talking to institutions, I mean, it's easy to kind of like espouse the merits of getting interest on your stables, but what is like their level of interest in the Spark token? And maybe we can also just use this as an opportunity to to talk about what the Spark token is and what its role is within the Spark protocol umbrella. Yeah, so the Spark token will be uh launching soon. We've had uh great success so far. We've been running a pre-armming uh campaign uh on Sparkland for a while. Uh Pendle just launched a program a few weeks ago uh where with PTUSDs for Spark points and so this this uh we've just seen a lot of engagement in the in the Spark uh ecosystem. So yeah, when the token uh launches uh users are going to be able to uh stake it and uh it will also give uh governance rights in the future as well. Yeah, there's a lot of activity actually. And so we're currently in Sparkland season 2, which launched uh two and a half weeks ago. So what are these Sparkland seasons? From from the outside looking in, they seem to be kind of like userdriven organic social media pushes. Yeah. So the Sparkland uh campaign has been uh running for a little while. That's the older one. But there's been uh newer campaigns like such as the the the Pendle one which has launched recently and uh yeah there's been a lot of excitement for this on Twitter. Yeah, we see just a lot of uptick. But yeah, I mean we're getting close and uh we're very excited to have this out there and have a like a you know both the OGs who have been with us since the beginning as well as this whole new uh batch of uh people who have come in and uh we're just happy to get this thing launched and uh really get the the subdow star model uh live in production and and scale this whole decentralized governance thing. What are going to be some if if you had to anticipate some sort of like governance I don't want to call them issues but uh governance proposals that spark token holders might participate in like how how do you view future governance within the spark protocol? Yeah. So um these are still being uh worked under and uh the so Spark has this relation with Sky in the exchange for the privilege access to the credit line. Spark has to operate within the rules that uh Sky sets out. So there's this whole it's called the atlas that defines you know you could do lending to this and this is like kind of the risk framework involved with that but it also will apply to governance. So this uh TBD but it's like uh this will be there also needs to be like some distribution of the token first. So like it'll come but it's like still being worked on. Yeah. Is is the whole Spark token then going to be a fair drop where only Sparkline participants a participants are able to gain access to this or is there also going to be uh like a premine like are you and your team also competing for these spark tokens with the the open and free market? Well, I mean this is the very unique thing about the uh Spark token launch is that most of the there's no VC uh investment or anything like that. There's no giant unlock overhang. 65% of the supply is going out as as farms. It's public access. So you can deposit your USDS or your uh Sky tokens and then you receive uh SPK tokens in the farm. So in this sense uh it looks a lot more like a fair launch uh token. There's like no insiders or anything like that. there is a team allocation, but it's the vast majority is going out in these in these farms. So, we're uh very excited. I think it's kind of a different meta than what we've seen before with these um you know, large supply unlocks after a year. Um I think this will be very interesting and I think it will align the community a lot more with the long-term vision of Spark. when we look at uh like Spark Lend um there's various different assets that users can borrow against and there's multiple derivatives of stable coins um and of Ethereum and Bitcoin as well. So can you just share a little bit about um how your team went about choosing the various different derivatives of ETH like we ETH R ETH and the various different derivatives of Bitcoin like CBBTC and LBTC um and and why you chose them and maybe not some other wrapped protocols. Yeah, I mean Maker is a pioneer in the collateral on boarding process in general. So um you know we have a risk team called Block Analytica that's been doing this uh since DeFi existed basically and a lot of the I mean there's a lot of criteria that goes into making a decision about whether to on board a collateral or not but first and foremost it's going to be come down to metrics like uh you know is it like is there a large amount of TVL in the project is there good liquidity on secondary markets um these types of uh evaluations and then you get a ballpark figure for how much um loans this will generate and so if you feel it's met some sort of threshold then you can start doing deeper due diligence like evaluating the team track record Lindy as well as like the smart contract complexity things like admin access uh you know is the governance process around the protocol using best practices this is an incredibly uh complex process and you know it's it's like it's similar with any sort of credit that you're underwriting in DeFi or Tradfi, it's just kind of like different things you need to be focused on in DeFi, such as you know, there's no smart contracts in Tradfi, but you know, counterparty and credit risk are very real things. So, it it's it's all just it's just risk analysis. It's been uh done for a while. And uh in terms of DeFi, our our team is one of the best in the space. Yeah. So, as we're kind of like zooming out and and wrapping up our time, um I'm just curious to hear how Spark views the EVM and and L2 landscape like what's your process for choosing which chain to support? Maybe Ethereum is is easy to support because it has a large amount of TVL. Maybe Bass is really easy to support because that's had the most rampant growth in the past year and a half. But like what what was the team's thought process on onboarding support for arbitrum, optimism, uni chain and and how do you look at other L2s that you want to integrate support for? Yeah, I mean it's it's kind of similar to the collateral on boarding process. We're just looking at user metrics. So like it's not like we're even really deciding. It's more like I mean there is a decision there, but like it's like we're just going where the users are and that's kind of our ethos is we're not picking winners and losers. We watch what the market decides is a popular chain. And so we just want to serve the users that want to use Spark as a whole. So if we see a lot of people on base, this is where we'll uh you know expand the Spark liquidity layer to um Spark savings and stuff like that. So it's really like that and as we improve this process, we're going to be able to just cater to more and more uh chains. So that we really want to just be ubiquitous such that in the sense that we're solving uh liquidity fragmentation, we can start getting away from this select the chain thing in your wallet and it's like really the whole thing just feels like one like one cohesive uh sort uh chain basically all combined. Yeah. So, I'd be remissed if I didn't talk about the kind of perspective issues that the market and that a lot of long-term onchain users have had towards Ethereum over the past year, year and a half. And a couple times throughout this conversation, you've mentioned these issues with liquidity fragmentation. So from your perspective where you stand like how dire was the situation for just Ethereum as a blockchain and as an ecosystem was it ever really at risk? How did this L2 ccentric roadmap kind of hurt Ethereum or or did it not really matter? Um, I'm just kind of like curious in general to hear your overall outlook on how we were viewing Ethereum and and maybe like how that might have changed over the past quarter of this year. Yeah. Well, in terms of liquidity fragmentation, I actually don't view this as an issue at all. I think it's kind of a temporary thing. And with Spark liquidity layer in particular, uh, we're actually effectively solving this. So like as we've just scaled this up over the like past few months. So now actually because we've plugged into uh A and Morpho and Sparkland on all these various markets as long as you're using one of the major markets like you can go on a on base and like borrow 500 million you could do that right now and like it will fill it in. So the rates will not be disjoint in that sense. So that I think is kind of just a temporary problem including and as well as like solving it at the application layer the bridging infrastructure is getting a lot better too. So you see things like super chain a layer like this sort of uh making improvements on the settlement time of the uh of the crosschain interop is going to be extremely important and so us as an uh application layer any improvement in the bridging infrastructure we can take advantage of that too that just it's just going to continue to compound so like uh liquidity fragmentation I uh for dollars in particular I think because that is the most important asset that's going to be crosschain that's not going to be a problem. I don't think at all. And I think actually that's going to be solved like this year basically with the uh regards to the uh foundation pivot. Yeah, I've been extremely heartened by the the change in direction. I think the I I think the L2 uh road map has has always been correct. I I think it's the best way to scale, but it's also I like the fact that the L1 is not being neglected. I think that was maybe a little bit of a mistake to be like, you know, get off the L1. I I think I view it as like Ethereum and the L2s in that the L2s will be successful and Ethereum can be successful. I like I'm a positive sum type guy. I think this is we're in a very small uh market right now and there's a lot of room to grow and so I don't think we need to be uh going into this zero sum mindset like I'm very pro everything. I'm pro you know let's let get Ethereum to grow, let's get base arbitum to grow, all the other L2s, let's get Salana to grow. I think giving people the tools that they want to use is what this space is all about. And so I'm a user choice maximalist. People should be able to use what they want and we're happy to support them in whatever they choose. That's a fantastic insight. And I forgot to ask you this earlier when we were on the the Maker Dow kind of rebrand, but I've been part of an ecosystem that had to do a token migration. there's still to this day, even though it's been two and a half years since users were asked to migrate tokens, there's still people who don't know about that. So, can you what what was like your insights that you gleaned from users having to migrate D to to USDS? If you go on to the Spark platform, there's still D lending and and borrowing and USDS. So are we is Sky in in a world where there's support for both D and USDS or do we ultimately want to see kind of all die tokens migrate to USDS? Oh, do we definitely don't have to have all die tokens migrating to USDS? Like um in fact even in spark line the biggest market is still die. So like I like I think it again maybe this is my personal view but like I think people should be free to use what they want. So if they want to stay on die that's fine. like I there's there's no problem with that. So, but like really we're building USDS for like the growth of the future growth, but it's okay if people want to stick around on die. I don't think that's a problem. Cool. Well, you mentioned a lot of products that just launched by Spark. Is there anything on the road map that we haven't really touched upon yet that that you want to highlight real quickly? Yeah, I mean the main thing is really just getting out onto all the main chains. Um really just uh stepping on the gas with the Spark liquidity layer. We want to just hook up every single major exchange such that uh solve liquidity fragmentation as much as we can. I think we're we're getting there. Like we were maybe like 20% of the way there a few months ago. I think we're past the 50% mark now. And like really just get that like last little bit in and then we can really improve uh the experience and um you know being backend infrastructure maybe people don't uh see this stuff as much. But I think we'll be we'll be uh excited when people when the rates start going up and suddenly, you know, uh there's not like huge rate spikes on different lending market instances. We'll be like, "Okay, yes, we've solved the problem. We're helping to uh grow the pie for everybody in in DeFi." Awesome. Sam, for anyone who listened to this, um who do you want to reach out to you and what's the best way that they can contact you? Yeah, reach out to me anytime on Twitter. I'm hexonaut. So, h e x o n a u t. Uh, so DM me or, you know, reply to me. I usually try to respond to most people's. Cool. Well, thank you so much for your time today, Sam. It was fantastic to dig into Spark. Once again, I highly recommend anybody goes to the data dashboard. It's super cool to look around and and play around on and really cool ways to kind of uh borrow lens your stable coins. And if you're interested in stable coin yield, check out SUSDS. Um, appreciate your time today, Sam. Yeah, thanks for having me. Thank you for tuning in to the Smart Economy Podcast. To stay in the loop with all of our latest episodes and insights, head over to www.smarteconomyodcast.com. And don't forget to subscribe to our YouTube channel for all of our video content. If you enjoyed today's discussion, please consider showing your support by liking, commenting, and reviewing this episode on your favorite podcasting platform. We'd also love to hear from you. So, please don't hesitate to drop a comment on Spotify or YouTube to share what topics you'd like us to cover or who you'd like to see as our next guest. And if you or someone you know would make a great guest, please don't hesitate to reach out. We're always on the hunt for fresh voices and new perspectives. For our NEO token holders out there, please consider voting for NEO news today as your council representative. We've proudly been serving the NEO ecosystem since 2017 and we'll continue to do so by putting portions of our council rewards directly back into ecosystem growth initiatives. So with all of that said, thank you once again for listening to the Smart Economy podcast and we can't wait to catch you next time.