Decentralization only matters in so far as it promotes permissionlessness and self-custody. So it's a tool is not the end in itself. The end is permissionlessness. Hey everyone, welcome to the Smart Economy podcast where we ask your favorite builders the questions you wish you could ask them yourself. This is a production of neonnewstoay.com and I'm your host Dylan Gowski. In this episode, we're joined by Alux Smith, the co-founder of Maya Protocol, a decentralized liquidity provider for L1 to L1 swapping, and he's the author of Prop 6, which helped resolve the issues associated with the meltdown of Thorfi that happened earlier this year. In this conversation, we discussed building as a pseudonmous founder, how permissionless systems are used as a tool, the role of the Cacao token in the Maya ecosystem, how Cacao's token model served as a solution for the TCY token that was distributed following the collapse of Thori, lessons learned from the launch of TCY, and so much more. Just a reminder, nothing said in this podcast is a solicitation to buy or sell any tokens and that the guest or host might hold tokens discussed in any given episode. You can see a disclaimer at www.newstoday.com. Also, if you enjoyed this episode, please consider rating and reviewing it on your favorite podcasting platform and sharing with your friends and family. Every rating, review, like, and comment helps us reach more people to bring you more of your favorite guests. With all that said, I really enjoyed speaking with Alux, and I hope you enjoy the conversation, too. Hey everyone, welcome to the Smart Economy podcast. Today, we're joined by Alux Smith, the co-founder of Maya Protocol, a decentralized liquidity solution that enables native L1 to L1 swapping. and he's also the author of Prop 6, which led to the creation of the TCY token that was part of a whole Thorfi debacle. Um, which I can't wait to to delve into both of those things. But, uh, first of all, how's it going today, Alux? Well, good. I'm speaking from Bitcoin Vegas, so excuse the boring, uh, generic background. Uh, but doing pretty well. Thank you for having me. Yeah, we were kind of shooting it back and forth before we hit record and um I actually got to meet you and your team at Rare Evo last August in Vegas. So, it's it's cool to see you back in Vegas, back in the States at a conference. You you haven't necessarily gotten to spend a ton of time at the Bitcoin conference, but what's like the general vibe of of the event right now? It's good vibes. I think people have said it's it's huge. Uh I I'll be I'll be heading there today that you know the speaker roster yesterday was great for the industry pass and yeah I've heard good things odd about Sailor with his uh reserves but I I have my theory of why he doesn't post them. It's going to be a fun week. I'm more in the like you said the bisde dev you know meeting people working some stuff out with specific guys like I it's just like as good a place as any to meet when you're running like a a big network of pseudonymous people that are all over the place. So it's just like a conference are just as good a place as any. Do you find that you're trying to attend more Bitcoin oriented events or like crypto in general? Because we met at Rare Evo, which is kind of like a Cardano ecosystem event and and now you're at a Bitcoin conference. Maya Protocol is multi-chain. Um, so do you find like value in in going to more general crypto events or Bitcoin specific events or do you kind of have to touch them all and go to all of them? Uh I I kind of look where the DeFi scene is going because like rare elbow started being Cardano oriented but ended up being very uh bit more DeFi and crosschain. So we tended that. Uh here in Bitcoin Vegas uh I always wanted to come to a Bitcoin one is the first time. So it's fun. But I I'm coming specifically to meet very specific people. But uh probably going to permissionless token 49 in Singapore. Those are more general. But it's they're they're still kind of like intense or like uh more decision oriented cuz I was to I was there to in Austin for uh what was it? Coindesk consensus. Consensus. Yeah. That's too corporate for my taste. Uh so like there's not much I we can do there. Like they're like, "Oh yeah, where's your company based at?" I'm like, "Are you guys why are you guys stopping companies in a crypto event?" So, uh yeah, I think consensus and and those more like uh corporate ones are not for us. Uh although maybe, you know, there's something someone specific to see. Yeah. And it's a shame that you haven't had a chance to go to the Bitcoin conference yet because yesterday I saw a question being asked on stage and the question asker was basically saying like we've evolved past um owning your own keys like it doesn't really matter, not your keys, not your coins anymore. And for like a black rockck or an institution, they're starting to provide uh services that custody keys on behalf of users. So we're starting to get into this realm of institutionalization of people that are buying and holding crypto on behalf of like mainstream users. And so um you mentioned that consensus kind of has these sort of people there. And I was wondering if like you're seeing the same thing at the Bitcoin conference, but you were doing BD all yesterday. Didn't really have a chance to go see all of that. Yeah. So maybe before we jump into kind of like uh what you're working on, you are pseudonmous. You you go by Alux Smith, so I didn't really have a chance to kind of like stumble on your LinkedIn or anything like that. So what were you doing kind of before you you and your team founded Maya Protocol? Were you working in in blockchain and web 3 or were you a developer in another industry? What was kind of like your path before you got into blockchain and crypto? We have been in startups. We're still in startups. Uh, one of the three co-founders manages that side of the business. We have a software agency count every engineer and designer we have. We're like upwards of 70 people out of which around six to seven are in Maya. Uh, so the the team is the team in reality is a bit bigger. But that's kind of where we came from. We always wanted to get into crypto. I just don't like smart contracts. uh solidity uh actually solidity on EVM that's kind of like I don't like it uh up on reading about it it's a very adversarial environment you know you have worry about many things in a in a design so uh saw to chain fell in love with it and it was her first dip into into uh building in in blockchain just for poking through building Maya yeah it was her first time so it took a it took a a while to get the ropes, but it's been four years since and uh quite a fun ride. Yeah. Are you still is so is your development company um working on non web 3 non-crypto stuff as well? Yeah. Interesting. Um so what was your kind of genesis then into into Bitcoin and Ethereum? Maybe you don't like smart contracts, so it wasn't Ethereum that was kind of like yahha moment. Do you remember the first time you came across crypto and like what what it took for you to get to the point where you're like, I understand this. Let's build here. Yeah, I was I was offered crypto by a friend like let's let's buy one Bitcoin. I think I don't remember what price it was. It was pretty low pretty low. These I wasn't I was actually in high school. We saw the price and we didn't know it was divisible. So, it was like, "Oh, we can't afford one. Okay, let's let's forget about it. We should have bought like 10%." Yeah, cuz that that we could have afford it. But yeah, we were we were darks. But much later I did start to get into it kind of like read a little bit. Uh uh you know I like research so I I would go to the white papers but I hadn't dipped anything yet. Then bought a little bit then helped someone with their cold storage solution. So got a little bit more interested and then had to buy back uh some ETH and force hold it for like four years. So that was it's an interesting story. I can I can uh tell it some other time because it it's funny but it will take us a while. But uh we ended up pretty much holding E from 80 to like 1,600. So uh force follows are great. Uh set and forget. I think if you're trying to beat the market, it's very difficult. But uh we did pretty well on that run. And uh so that of course got me more interested and you know uh I started doing even more research reading more white papers and stumbled onto thought chain. I was an LP there in Ether Run and this is when you know I was listening to a webinar and actually JP is speaking in the webinar and the guy says you know eventually there might be three or four of these things because you know the market's huge there's a lot of chains there's a lot of demand and you know we can't take them all. I was like, "Oh, I want to be second." I think this is too important. Well, I I come from a developing country, Mexico. Uh, everybody loves Mexico, but we all know it's in not fully developed. But, uh, here, you know, in Latin America, you can have a dictator up in a, you know, in a niffy and you can have the systems choke you in the niffy and everybody knows the government's out to get you. So here we don't have the luxury of using crypto for you know let's fake money. We are here to actually kind of free ourselves from that because it's what we've lived for for the past century. So you see Venezuela, you see where Argentina was, you see uh where Nicaragua is and you're like how do we make Mexico avoid this? And the only the only solution is you cannot have the government control the monetary system. uh because actually Mexico has been relatively responsible with it. We have a very good central bankers interestingly and they end up making it in the world economic forum which is funny to me but uh yeah we Mexicans are everywhere but that's between that and you know getting interested and reading the white papers and stuff I just think torch's too important. Uh so we we thought to build uh redundancy for Thor chain and that's that's what we've been do doing ever since. Cool. Yeah. I've had Chad on the podcast as well as JP. So, it's nice to have kind of like a third head of the Thor Chain ecosystem kind of join the pod. And I remember uh I was using like Asgard decks way back in the day and and when Thor Chain was still I think it was on B&amp;B chain back in the day. That's when what what when Rune was. So before even like the L1 to L1 swapping went live like I've I I bought into the mission into the vision and the scope of Thor Chain was just so large. It was a really hard problem to solve and it took years and years and years. And so it's really cool to finally see like now we have Maya protocol. there's like swapkit that's enabling other teams to start building on top of the ThorChain solutions. So, um yeah, like it's it's really interesting to hear that you heard that Thor Chain can't handle all of the traffic. It can't handle all of the tokens and you decided like, okay, let's like step up and and be the team that does this. So before we kind of like delve further into Maya, um you you hit on a really interesting point and and that's mostly that like you think of like countries in Latin America, you think of countries in like Eastern Europe, in the Mediterranean who have just like terrible fiat monetary policies, rampant inflation. I mean, you even said like Argentina is good. Like it still has 46% inflation. It's not 200% inflation year-over-year. So like the fact that this is good for an emerging economy in in Latin America, it still kind of like showcases the difference between what an American or a European holding crypto is, which is a speculative hope that number goes up versus like somebody living in Latam or in Southeast Asia or even in like the Gulf States or wherever where blockchain is used as a tool because a lot of people can't gain access to a bank account or the central banker are devaluing the currency at a rapid rate. So beyond just like and and you also mentioned that like Mexico is not in necessarily an issue right now with with the currency. You have decent central bankers. So it's not like DeFi and crypto is a lifeline like as it is for somebody in Nicaragua or Argentina. But there's still a different relationship that like the region has with this technology because it enables people to participate in like an international economic manner that they might not have necessarily been able to. So what's like on the ground when when you're meeting with like your your fellow citizens in Mexico and you're talking with people who are crypto natives and maybe people who aren't crypto natives, what's just like the vibe like? Is there uh receptiveness to this technology? Are like our parents are our grandparents seeing the value of Bitcoin and blockchain networks and are they onboarding? Do they understand like the value prop of DeFi? And is what DeFi offers is that more than the hurdles it takes to kind of like start understanding crypto? Like what's just the general vibe like in the region? Are are people buying into it? Are they adopting it? Are they using it? Yeah. So, we do have decent central bankers like you said, but we do have a pending doom of of having like uh uh expropriation and stuff like that happen. Uh so, it's a it's a fear that people have because it's happened before in Mexico many many years ago. I think already over a century, but still it can happen. So, um people will will see also crypto as an exit plan. So, it's not only a hedge against inflation, which you know in Argentina you definitely had to though. We we had so few we have a few employees in Argentina. We pay them with crypto and they were the the rich kids in the block because their currency was worth the same next week. But in in uh uh in Mexico is definitely also an exit plan. If you need to move uh your ship and go live in Spain or whatever or in Salvador or Singapore or Switzerland, those are usually the suspects. You're very light on your feet with crypto. Uh it's very, you know, people have real estate, but we know everybody knows that will take a while to offload if things go to the downturn. Gold is heavy. So, it's just that yeah, if you need to to go, you you can take that with you. I know at least for like my family that gives them peace. Uh so, that's definitely something even adults can understand like grown 60 year old people. I wouldn't say grandparents if because people will think of 70s 80s those are coasting they're no longer really strategizing but if you talk with someone in their 50s or 60s they will understand immediately about the being you know having a reserve that you can have a peer anywhere else in the world next week if you need to move so that's one of the key selling points in Mexico uh there is a crypto market It's growing. There is a builder market. It's growing. You have Bitso, which is a unicorn that was uh born in raised in Mexico uh and doing pretty well. It's decently managed for a central exchange. People are still in the road to adoption, but it's still too difficult and and that's another key problem I'm trying to solve elsewhere, not not with my uh but how do we make it very stupidly simple so that my mom can use it without my help? That's kind of like my goal. So you know uh looking at some solutions for that also for e-commerce payment gateways and uh uh points of sale. So in the same solution needs to cover all of it. How do we make it very easy for the user and how do we make it easy to spend? So that's that's something that requires more work. But yeah, another key future is that you are you in the US are spoiled because you have access to financial instruments. Everybody's banked, rates are low, can go you can IPO in New York very easily. Uh you have access to a lot of things. The only thing that sucks is your legal system. It's too expensive. But beyond that, uh uh everything is great. And that's something you don't have in Mexico. in Mexico, you know, banks won't lend you. Uh it's difficult to get an account uh once you get it. You don't have access to a lot of things. Honestly, you don't have like you cannot uh easily refinance property. There's no there's no loans today by a Mexican bank for uh industrial warehousing. I know cuz I developed them. So, I cannot even, you know, get leverage for that at all. And or stock market sucks. and Mexico is the best off in Latin America. So the fact that a team can build and go to market and access the worldwide markets in crypto with no permission, that's also very powerful for Latin Americans because now it enables like Latin America has always had talented people, but they end up going to work for someone in California, for someone in New York, for someone in Berlin, uh for someone in Switzerland. But it's very difficult to make it on your own. Uh and it's mainly because the talent is there. You just don't have access to the market. You need you need to go through someone that will give you permission. Uh because they're they're very highly capital is very highly protected by social structures. Uh so the fact that in crypto you can go direct that's also super powerful in Latin America and it's something people are aware like that. That's another thing uh uh people in their 50s and 60s will understand. Oh, you can kind of like IPO of sorts and like go to market and have somebody in South Africa buy your coin. Yeah. Oh, that's awesome. Oh, that I love that. And and then they start asking me, oh, can I do that for my shoe company? I'm like, no, no, no. That you cannot tokenize your shoe company yet. But, uh it's something that does does ring well there. Are you starting to see cases where like if somebody wants to purchase an industrial warehouse or a per a commercial property where they're able to leverage like Bitcoin or Ethereum to take out loans in USDT or USDC in order to like purchase realworld commercial warehouses or are we still a little too far away from that? Uh not the taking out loans. I I've heard that I want to purchase with Bitcoin or ES but it's rare. It's very rare, but uh it does start to make more noise every time Bitcoin is at an all-time high. You know, my my wife's uncle calls again say, "Oh, how is it doing? I heard something good about it." You know, also when it crashes, you know, "Oh, I I I heard it's done." I'm like, "Yeah, no, it's not done. It's a part of it's normal. It's a market." That transcends borders. That happens up here, too, with my my aunts and uncles. Okay, cool. So, one last question uh before we dig into Maya and Thorfi. Um, why why be pseudonmous? What are what are the benefits and the reasons for being a pseudonmous founder? I guess maybe if I were to take a guess, uh, you mentioned how like we're spoiled here in the States. So, for me, it pays to be doxed. It pays to have my name out there because if I want to go get a bank loan for starting a web 3 business, like it's okay. I I can just have my name out there. But, but maybe that benefit, that value isn't there in Latin America. So also like we see a lot of uh the crime that's related to people being kidnapped. So it's very easily understandable why someone would want to be anonymous but you walk the line of of both being anonymous but also kind of like being out there and being a face that people can talk with. So so why be pseudonymous? What what are the benefits? What are the reasons? Why did you choose to do this? So personal security is the main one. I'm not worrying about the crypto guy uh that you know knows my orchain to see my face and come find me. Good luck to them uh to find me and and and chase me in Mexico. That's it's by turf. But there's bigger fish in my turf. You do have organized crime in Mexico. It's relatively safe in Guadalajara or like almost completely safe in Guadalajara specifically, but you don't want to have a high profile. Anyway, I I refrain to my home and work from there and I don't wear or do flashy things and that's enough. I'm building for a purpose and for my family's future. So, I I don't need to be I don't need to flash and that's that's a an important one. Second is what we're building is uh permissionless systems. uh and I'm I don't this administration is friendly but I don't necessarily give have that as a given for us or overall world it can change very quickly as it changed back from being terrible with Biden to now okay with Trump so some of us have been chased and and having just an extra step look if somebody wants to find me they can but having an extra step and keeping a low profile I think is healthy And uh it gave it set the tone for my team as well so that they're saying their their faces aren't out there. Uh so I'm a bit more responsible. I I started the the this thing off. I'm uh and I'm fine with the risk I'm taking, but I don't think it's fair for them. But if you if you don't start off like if the leader is ducks, then like everybody will will wouldn't take it seriously. So I do want them also taking it seriously for their safety. Finally, it's also just a challenge because why should it matter what what my name is? Uh if the code is there, the system is decentralized, the uh you know everything's transparent and onchain, why does my name matter? And if it does, then you're we're doing something wrong or the market is uh doing something wrong. So it's just like also out of principle a little bit. So, one of the things that I care about here obviously is like stable coin legislation, market structure bill, so that we as an industry can be able to survive a Biden or a Trump and it doesn't matter who's in office. Um, because there's law that says whether this can be here or can't be here. There were multiple times over the past couple years where we almost moved our business offshore because of the Biden administration. How did that have an impact in your neck of the woods? Um, you mentioned your administration's relatively friendly to the space. Does does having like your neighbor to the north with the biggest military that's not afraid to go give freedom to someone who has oil under their country, does that like impact you guys in in a negative way or is it really just kind of more noise for what you guys are doing and what you're building? It was unnerving under Biden seeing some people uh you know be served wells notices, some people getting charged and arrested and put in jail. So it I was very far removed and we we definitely are doing things either better or quieter. So like and I knew we're not doing anything wrong. It's if you if you see law what we're doing is actually right. We're we're keeping to constitutions, we're keeping to uh law and order uh is just governed by code. So u in that sense I I felt some internal peace but it was on Arabic. Um now now with Trump it does seem like okay we can breathe and at least these four probably eight years we can build and let build you know live and let live. So uh uh that that does feel a little bit better. I can tell you know my wife that it's okay uh and that there's not going to be any any problems anytime soon. And that's of course also nice for her. Uh so in Mexico specifically there's just no regulation on crypto. It's just like, oh, if you made the money, you should report it and pay taxes on it if you want to kind of bankerize it, but uh they don't recognize it as a currency, as a as a asset, as a anything. It's just magic internet money that they don't understand. So, I'm perfectly fine. That's in that way to be honest. So, uh in Mexico, I don't really see an issue. And I think it's important an important battle to to to fight. I a lot of respect to Zcash for instance that they're doing a privacy oriented coin based in the US and they're lobbying every week in Washington. Uh they have a guy specially for that. Uh that fight is a is a tough one, but it's it's it's one that sets a precedence for the future. uh and that makes you know armors it against future you know administrations. So I find that pretty good. We saw in January when JP kind of froze Thorfy a instance where maybe Thor chain wasn't as decentralized as we thought it was. Um there have been changes since that's been made to the the node architecture and and and ways in which things can be frozen and there needs to be some governance put into place. But it brought into the question like this this this grander kind of philosophical you know what's the level of centralization versus decentralization. And I've been saying for years that decentralization is a spectrum. You can have token decentralization uh client decentralization programming language decentralization geographic developer all these different things that kind of like build into the levels of decentralization. So where would you kind of like rank Maya protocol right now? Like if you and your team walked away from the project, is the code is the protocol at a place in its maturity where it can continue to persist even without a dedicated team working on it? So there's already two teams building on Maya, not only Maya. So much like Thor Chain and Nine Realms. So uh on that regard, that's that's actually pretty good. We don't have any validators at all. We don't control the network whatsoever. I think uh and we have excellent node operators. So I think it can it could live on. It would be a blow. It would slow things down. They would have to agree which new GitLab account to have cuz the GLAB we we administer it. So they called repo but they can you know fork it and continue elsewhere. It would just take some time to coordinate and kind of make sense of you know where the hell are these guys we need to update this or that. So, I think on that it'll be fine. So, the network is decentralized. It's not decentralized enough yet. Uh, but we're young. I I don't beat myself up for that. It's it's going to happen as we keep growing. We're still small. For a $25 million market cap, we're incredibly decentralized. So, you know, the code is open source. We build in the open. Everything's public and transparent. We had a fair launch. The token is well distributed. uh you don't need the you need liquidity, you need to bond. So uh since it's not the token itself, the current node set cannot kind of like protect the token and and uh make sure they're the only ones that can own it. So people can buy up liquidity units and bond those. Um so there's there's several things uh promoting decentralization. It's just that we're young and small, so it there's a there's a natural limit, but it's definitely better than our multisync. I mean, I think we could even argue that really even what it's 13 years since Bitcoin first mined its first token that there's really truly only two decentralized networks and that's Bitcoin and Ethereum. And you can even argue the levels of decentralization for both of those. So again, that's why it's so important to think of decentralization as a spectrum that it's not uh it's not binary. It's not black or white. Exactly. Yeah. And and like for me decentralization only matters in so far as it promotes permissionlessness and self-custody. Uh so it's a tool. It's not the end in itself. The end is permissionlessness. That's what we built Bitcoin for. That that is a key word. As Eric Forhees very eloquently said last year in permissionless the centralization uh if it's it can be 100 people that are this aligned with the permissionless value and then the centralization is not good. So uh something that we've demonstrated in my eyes that we care about permissionlessness first uh with you know a few crisis that have happened over the last year that is the true north that is a star that we should follow. The reason we're building here is to have people be free and not require permission to access their money. That's why self-cost is important and the markets. That's why DeFi is important. Uh um decentralization in itself is just some a very a very elegant way to get there. Another elegant way get way way to get there is privacy and the best you can have is privacy and decentralized because then it's truly equipped to to protect the freedoms of the small ones and the big ones who matter who matter also to create the market and to provide prosperity. So uh the problem is there's a huge middle there that if they if they without privacy or without the centralizations or both they start giving up freedom for security and they start doing the ruling of the majority the tyranny of the majority as well. So those are two things you want to avoid. Decentralization and and privacy achieve that but the end goal is permissionlessness and self-esteeing. Mhm. You mentioned that the project is a $25 million market cap. So, are you viewing just that through the eyes of the CowCow token and maybe like let's just take a moment uh I I always like to assume that our guests are a combination of crypton natives and and my mom. So, when we're describing things sometimes I ask us to Eli 5 some principles that are very native to you and me. We understand these inherently. Um, but then also we try to keep into perspective somebody who's never heard of Maya protocol before or is just grasping with what cryptocurrencies are. So with all that said, can you just like kind of give a brief Eli 5 of what the KCA token is and the role that it that it has within the Maya ecosystem? So Kaka is the native token of Maya protocol. Maya is a chain, a sovereign chain that runs a code similar to Cosmos. Um but what it actually does is connect to several other chains say Bitcoin and ETH to facilitate crosschain swaps. So in order to facilitate this swap what Maya does is run vaults in Bitcoin and vaults on ETH that people can have funds in when they LP and that these vaults you can send to them with some instructions in the memo that tells Maya, okay, I want this bitcoin converted into ETH to this address. So that's what bio does. But in the middle for all of that to work, we have cacao which is an economic u token which is used for people to pair their liquidity with. So they added bitcoin and cacao. Somebody else added e and cacao. Somebody else adds ze and cacao. And what happens is in the swap you just said here's the bitcoin at what is and maya will do that for you. You don't even need to know cacao exists. But in the background it actually two swaps are happening. Bitcoin to cacao, cacao to ETH. So that's pretty much the gist of it. Why we choose to do that is because if you don't if you don't have an intermediary token, um what the problem you start to run into is liquidity fragmentation because now you need uh n factorial pools for uh n assets supported whereas with Orway you just need n pools. So the liquid is much more concentrated. Now you could use a different intermediary token. That's the chain what chain flip chose to do. They're using USDC. But now you're introducing third party risk. So now uh USDC is a it's a problem. And yes, they could change it, but it's a problem. Whereas on in my own for onchain we have an internal token that's kind of like a unit of account and it's what also powers the incentives around the everything else because now you can uh charge fees keep them in cacao and provide them to the players as incentives that are doing good not needing any inflation by the way. Maya has had no inflation since it launched so uh it's all coming from swap piece and we're fine being small and growing where we deserve to be. it I I I much rather the continuous progressive building than you know the massive booms and busts. So that's kind of the my way stability I I think is uh preferred and it's paid off because integration partners also are looking for stability. If you have you know uh trustw integrate you they're looking for stability in their in their swap provider. They don't care if it's small they just care if it's stable. I think you just hit on a key differentiator between Maya and Thor Chain and that's like the zero inflation basically. So am I correct in assuming that whenever there's a swap um not only do fees go to cacao token holders but that also kind of triggers the the the creation of new cowcow tokens or or how am I how am I getting this wrong? No, we have 100 million cow tokens period. When somebody paid Bitcoin to ETH, swap Bitcoin to ETH, they got a little bit ETH, less ETH than they should, the difference are fees. And you can extract those fees from the pools in Cacao terms and put them somewhere to be paid out. And we pay it not to cacao holders, but to active users. So liquidity providers and nodes. Um, but you don't need to inflate like the same 100 million cacaos are still there. They just changed hands from the user who's willingly paying fees in they don't know it was in caca in cacao the system managed it for them and those doing something that you want more often happening who get that cacao for their work or risk by the way and and since prop six tot has also become non-inflationary so uh we got them into the into the club well we're going to delve into prop six here in a minute because I think just providing the context text in the background for Maya protocol really showcased how you were the right team at the right time to provide the solution to the Thorfi issues. Um but I'm just curious also other than uh well now Rune is not an inflationary asset but beforehand it might have been. So what were some of the other differences then between Cacao and Rune? Because the the way in which cacao operates is very much in the same way Rune operates in ThorChain where you have a Bitcoin to Rune pool, a Rune to Ethereum pool and if you want to natively swap Bitcoin to Ethereum, you trade your Bitcoin for Rune and then Rune for Ethereum. It's very it's very similar with with Maya protocol. So what were the other kind of like key nuances or the key differences between Maya and between Thor Chain the way it was? So we on forchain you also bond ruin for validators on Maya you run you bond liquidity. So you have Bitcoin cacao and you bond that not the pure cacao. So uh that's a that's a key difference. We don't have we didn't have lending or savers. We um that saved you probably. Yeah. We didn't have we don't have inflation. We never had it. Uh emissions of course are always you know beating prices down. We were fairly launched early on. So the the token was well distributed and in no central exchange. Room has a big amount of its float in central exchanges which you know brings some other sort of problems at times. I think those are the main bits. Uh we we always cared a lot about reflexivity and avoiding it on Maya because again I believe we should we we're in the game of creating swap volume and swap volume requires pool depth but it also requires partners that integrate us. They care a lot about stability. So you should be your design shouldn't be made to leverage and go up and go back down and go back up and go back down. It should be as stable as you can design it. Yeah. There was a a calculator that I would play around with in 2022 where if you looked at all of the assets that were part of the Thor chain ecosystem, then you could like play with the price and you would seen the price of Rune go up and that would kind of like drive like a a hyper speculative kind of like hope and assumption for the underlying Rune asset which it sounds really interesting that that wasn't necessarily like baked into the cacao model. So you mentioned or or am I incorrect? Well, it it is meant to grow and it will uh it just has to make sense with the swap volume. Uh it should follow a swap volume in an a regular swap volume increase not a spike. A spike is doesn't matter but it's just rewards for the current guys. But if it's regularly a higher volume, the price should follow. It shouldn't be that the price happens and then hopefully we can sustain the valuation because then it's when you get those things. So Maya's still young. Are you able to kind of like objectively see this thesis playing out now as you kind of add more integrators, add more partners, and you start to see volume over time kind of like increase natively? Are you starting to see the thesis that the price or the value of the cacao token matches the volume that rises? Is that playing out now? Yeah. So, we started having volumes of $40,000 a day, been 400. Now, 4 million. We had 40 million one day. That's our spike. When was that? When there was a massive market dump. No, it's just market movement. So, there's a lot of liquidity moving and uh chain cannot have it all. So there's there end up being some uh pools in in fortune get get priced differently because of moving so much that all of a sudden Maya becomes very competitive even for very large swaps. So some will end up on on court as we see that there is definitely an effect in in the token. So yeah definitely we've seen it. The cow is very interesting because there's two things that I like it that I like which is uh the speculators start to leave and the token goes a little gets a little bit compressed and now we we get close to the very fair valuation uh and you know the the APYs are pretty good actually for people in the system everything's fine the cacao market cap is low but everything's fine and then all of a sudden people fomo and it's scarce so all the speculators come in and they're like beating each other. So we we went from like 13 cents to $130 because of that and not because of any tokconomic design promoting that. It's just that people got excited. Then we we what the second interesting thing is we wrote it back down to 25, you know, 20 25 cents and everything's fine. The system's okay. You know, whoever wanted to leave left. But the system has kept servicing swaps and increasing its volumes and who held held. Who profited profited and who lost lost? But nobody is coming here to Bang the door of why is cacao 20 25 cents. Everybody understands you know some people bought the top. It's their problem. Uh and and I I I am feeling this compression now like the the pump being primed again. So uh we'll see. We'll see. It's it's definitely fun, but I I much rather that we grow, you know, 10 20% month over month, uh, year over year, not these kind of spikes. Those, uh, I don't know, they're they just create sometimes fast expectations and they, uh, put kind of unnecessary pressure in the in the team sometimes to get back there, which is unreasonable. So, uh, yeah, I I I like more the the steady approach, but the market is the market is a market. You cannot It's permissionless, so I cannot stop anybody from doing anything. Yeah, I've been working. So, the the podcast is protocol agnostic, but I I spend most of my day in the Neo ecosystem, which is an OG L1 from 2016. And you just get a lot of people who are mad about token price and they come in and they're very salty and they put a lot of expectations on teams and builders. And there's a difference between a cacao token that has a native inherent utility that's very clearly defined. It is used as a second half of liquidity pools so that you can do L1 to L1 swaps versus an L1 token that's native to a blockchain that's a little bit more speculative. Like I would still argue that we don't have a value proposition for Ethereum right now. we can't point as to why the the price of Ethereum is the price that it is. So with that, you get a lot of people who might get upset at you at the price of the of the token. So it's nice to to hear that you're not necessarily dealing with I call them salty people. You're not necessarily dealing with like salty bag holders. There's a few there's a few, but uh very very few very few. And you know, we we launch a token fairly. We gave all of the supply away for free. We got zero. Uh we earn a a percentage of swap fees tokenized in the Maya token. Which you will find it starts to sound very similar to TCY. But that's the way we launched. So like it's also not that they can point and say, "Oh, you guys probably sold the top." Like we don't have any cacao. Any cacao we have, we earned through through making you for every $9 you guys earned. We earned one. So like if anything use all the talk. So uh it's a refreshing setup where I'm not kind of constantly anxious or worried. Uh and that that helps Maya be able to focus on how does the next five years look. Not like how do we get next month to have cacao higher. I don't I don't care about cacao price. I care about swap fees. And that's kind of what what would power the system. So, which let's let's transition into TCY because we only have a quarter of our time left and I'll just do my best to describe what the situation was and you let me know from a very high level where I got it wrong. In January of this year, um it was noticed that uh Thorfi, which is Thor Chain's DeFi ecosystem, uh there was an issue with the borrow and lend program. And there's probably a lot more nuance to this, but long story short, uh, people were able to lend their tokens and borrow tokens, which somehow got co-mingled with the liquidity pools that were involved in Thor Chain. And so we lost the ability for people to identify the claims they had on tokens that belong to LPs and belong to borrowers and savers. JP, one of the founders of Thor Chain, essentially uh froze Thorfi using his admin keys. Again, I'm sure there's better terms and better ways to to outline this. And that was kind of like the canary in the coal mine. And that basically said, "Hey, there's a problem here with Dorfy." And JP froze it. But then he was eventually removed from having that level of power. And then a month later, the validators, the node operators for Thor Chain actually opted to freeze Thorfy because there was indeed an issue with this co-mingling of assets and borrow lend as well as the LPS which if it would have allowed a bank run. Basically, it would have tanked the price of Rune, which would have made the ability for Thor Chain to operate with the liquidity pools null and void. And there would have been a bank run or a chain run I guess we call it so strong that Thor chain would have no longer been able to operate. And I'm in the camp that Thor Chain, Maya, Chain Flip, this is the probably with the the addition of smart contract development on a blockchain network and just Bitcoin in general. This is probably like the third most important contribution to blockchain and crypto in general. like we need to be able to permissionlessly, trustlessly trade between L1 to L1. So that's kind of like the overview as I see it for what the issue was with Doorchain and it was up to the community to provide a solution. And so Maya protocol with basically with the the structure of Cacao token, you guys were pretty much like the perfect solution to create Prop 6 and which led to the launch of TCY which launched earlier this month. So where did I did I generally get it right? Where am I getting things wrong? And maybe you can kind of like use this as a launching pad and to talk about how you came up with Prop 6 and the solution for TCY. So the chain run would have happened without with or without a pause. The writing was on the wall. The system was moving quickly into insolveny. So something needed to be done. Now something that people sometimes don't understand is that because of how AMMs work and how liquidity works, if run kept going to zero, the amount of Bitcoin there to pay back savers and lenders would also go to zero. So they would say no let let it happen and you know we get our bitcoin back. No no no there's not going to be any bitcoin for you. Now at the time of the second pause people if if we had killed chain let's say let's oh let's kill those guys made a mistake and they don't deserve to to be around anymore. Uh which is I think it's ridiculous but let's let's let's think about that for a second. Well, there at that time there were $60 million of assets in the pools and there was a hund00 million dollars of outstanding savers, $100 million of outstanding lenders and $100 million of uh DLP capital that got lost as well uh in the in the in the meltdown. So there were 20 cents on the dollar per person and they would have gotten those 20 cents on the dollar while killing Rune which would have destroyed $500 million of equity. So you're you're paying 60 killing killing 500s and not even being able to pay another 240 that you should. So you're you're just it's a terrible idea. So uh there was a a big torch and hater camp promoting that it was and I tried explaining and it was ridiculous. They they just see everything as zero sum. The thing is tortion is not zero sum. It's providing a valuable service. During all of this time swaps kept working. By the way was paused but swaps kept getting served hundred millions of dollars in swaps hundreds of thousands in a piece every every single day. So the question was what do how do we take this cash flow this amazing protocol and this great community that cares about the mission and do a solution. So prop 6 gets a little bit inspired in the Maya token. It gets a little which is how we get paid with swap piece. It gets a little bit inspired with DCB and and Pedro's proposal uh their different proposal that that we read and they build on it to generate to create kind of a restructuring plan which is we cannot pay you $200 million. What we can is commit to pay you 10% in perpetuity tokenized in this TCY token. We minted 206 million because that's the 206 million that were owed. uh we gave them to the to the users affected and now they can choose and we created a pool so they can choose whether they stay on or they sell it at any haircut that each individual chooses. Now the pool will allow people to buy it as well. And why would they buy it? Because they expect to volume to go up. uh the bottom of the torch volume went down to 60 to 80 million is now again uh uh on top on top of the 100 millions 150. So people betting that it will get back to the 500 million it was it was doing before. So there's people buying it uh and then that pushes price up and at some point the price is such that someone that was owed $1 says you know I'm fine with 40 cents. So we had a very good launch. It launched on 5th of May of 2025. It went up to 54 cents the first day, then back down to the 25 to 30 cents. Then, you know, a little bit we, you know, the recovery is still ongoing. We went, it went up to 30 to 35 cents. Now, it's in the 35 to 40 all of the time. So, hopefully we get to, it's only been three weeks, four weeks. Uh, so hopefully uh we get to $1 soon enough. uh which at that point it means that every every affected user got made whole uh according to the reference price of uh 23rd of January. I think uh it's a fair system and the way we build the tokconomics is also such that the protocol is constantly also buying TCY. It's not only paying 10% to holders, it's it's also there's a few mechanisms to buy back TCY as well. So the protocol is also bidding it up and uh kind of p purchasing back it swap fees which is interesting. And yeah we wrote the proposal on the 2nd of February 10 days after the second pause. I was actually I had just met JP. I was driving back to Mexico City 5 hours drive. My sister was giving birth. Uh but I had I had it I had the idea. I wrote it down in the hospital published it. started rallying the troops uh telling people you know uh they should go for it. Uh there was a proposal by JP himself with like 11 votes, a proposal by Night Realms with like seven votes and mine got to 12 in like an hour all of a sudden. So it was people were hungry for for something uh along these lines. So uh basically that night I was you know hopping onto spaces then being with my family then another space then uh you know some tacos with my dad another uh spaces you know hold the kid for the first time and then uh you know I I went and you know had met with nodes met with different people around the world and finally at 4 in the morning so 10 10 hours after I wrote it uh the the proposal passed with 67% consensus It was an interesting time. But then I woke up next day to the cold reality that now I had to get it done. It's not only about proposing it. So uh the next three months were about uh three months and three days were about uh ironing out details uh simplifying where it could be simplified improve where it could be improved coded. it was like 90 $100,000 sorry 90,000 to 100,000 lines of code testing it and you know doing things around it so like was the token logo how you know all of these questions of you know how will the claiming procedure work uh how will the UI with the claiming procedure happen where will this be hosted create the documentation for other interfaces to host it as well uh so all of these things and we really wanted to do it as fast as possible uh because we had a lot of people counting on us. So uh yeah, it took us three months but it it went off to a great start and uh happy with the results so far. It's been quite the ride and it was not only us like me and the Maya team. Uh there was also nights. Shout out to Orion. I'm actually here to meet him in Vegas after after all of this. We practically talked daily and met three four times a week. uh during all of this uh he he was great and kind of uh uh you know we were pingponging the proposal you know oh we should do this no because of that okay then we should do this okay let's do that uh so that that was essentially our our job for three months but it's a it's a very interesting token from a very interesting protocol we removed inflation as well from chain that was causing sell pressure and now rune was very leveraged so that's one of the ways we've been shedding its leverage So now fortune is I would say as healthy as it can be and healthier than it's been the last four years. So uh very excited of where it's at and uh getting it ready for its next stage of growth. Yeah. And full disclosure, I'm a TCY holder. I got caught up in the uh the fiasco. I was a lender for for many years basically since since earn was launched on on Thorfi. So, it's kind of an honor to have you join the pod because I remember when your proposal came through, it was the first kind of like light of hope that I felt as a disgruntled token holder and an ecosystem participant. And I remember just kind of thinking like, I'll take my my 20% and walk away now when they were talking about just shutting down Thor Chain and distributing the funds. So, um I think you and your team and and the folks at Nine Realm and shout out Orion. I met him at uh token last year and maybe it was Binance Blockchain Week in Dubai. Uh but really nice fellow. So, shout out to the work that you guys did. Um fantastic work. You turned something around really quickly and and and did a phenomenal job and 90 to 100,000 lines of code is no joke at all. I guess as we wrap up and and kind of end this interview, what is like a lesson learned or or is there anything extra good or anything that kind of worries you about the launch? Uh again, we're only 3 weeks into it, so we're still seeing how uh the fair claim works for people who were affected by the shuttering down of Thorfi. But yeah, are there any kind of like anything that we haven't talked about yet or or any lessons learned from the launch of TCY? Learned a lot. Excellent experience. Uh it it's been fun. Uh have a few lessons to take back to Maya. Maya is still my my darling. So we'll keep working on that. Uh we just integrated Zcash which is very exciting to me on Maya protocol. We Cardano is next. But learned a lot. learned that there's a very uh tightly tightlyk knit community around chain that care and that makes me even more bullish on Maya because if so many people cared this much about the mission is because it's worth doing. It was uh many lessons learned in crisis management as well and stakeholder agreement and uh put a lot of things in practice that I've uh learned over over the years as well. But it's a great experience. Still, my heart goes out to to affected users. Uh some did, you know, exit at 25 30 cents. It's still better than they would have gotten in a chapter 7 type bankruptcy, but still uh it sucks. So, you know, people I wasn't involved in creating Torfi. I didn't run any any torching note back then. I even openly criticized a few things about savers and lending. Uh but still I I don't think we apologize enough. It still sucks. So uh sorry to you and sorry to the listeners, but uh we're doing the best we can to to have it to give back as much as possible uh beyond $1, uh because that's what you deserve. And uh but if someone needs the money right away, you have an option. And there's the option is is actually a good one. uh if you compare with Celsius FTX these are years and years and years lots and lots and lots of of uh legal fees a lot of uncertainty uh and you end up getting even less. So I think this is good an outcome as any uh it was made with care and I hope it uh survives the ages. Look at at at the end of the day if you want to survive in this place long term you have to take personal accountability. So I never blamed anyone other than myself for for not doing as much research as I should have into borrow and lend and um it it was really amazing to see in a public and open process the deliberation process for a solution. So again just like shout out to you and everyone who participated in that from anyone who commented to anyone who submitted a proposal. It was it was dark times, but for for what it's worth, and again, not financial advice, but I'm still holding my TCY and and I'm locking it up and not looking back. So, I think on behalf of people who are affected, like thank you for the apology, but there's a free market open code uh solution out there that anybody can read and participate in. And at the end of the day, like we're adults. We're playing in a in a cutting edge industry where nothing is guaranteed and we should be assuming that everything we put into cryptocurrency and blockchain could go to zero. So, welcome to the party. You know, buy the ticket, take the ride. So, with all that said, um, thank you so much, Alux, for joining the pod today. Like I said, it was an honor to be able to chat with the person who drafted Prop 6. Um, and congrats on on the launch of TCY and the successful launch at least in the past three weeks that I've seen. If anybody wants to learn more about you or Maya Protocol, where can I send them? Als in in uh Twitter and and X or you can go to my protocol.com and you'll see all of the socials there and follow what we're doing. And shout out to the Maya Protocol intern on X uh keeping the crypto Twitter feed feed fresh and fun to follow. Yeah, they've had a blast. Uh, it's it's so funny that they've been doing a good job. Cool. Well, thank you for the time today, Alux. Um, thank you, Dylan. Have have a good time doing BD and and enjoy the the Bitcoin conference. Thank you, sir. Have a nice one. Cheers. Bye-bye. Thank you so much for tuning in to the Smart Economy Podcast. To stay in the loop with all our latest episodes and insights, head over to www.smarteconomyodcast.com. And don't forget to subscribe to our YouTube channel for all of our video content. If you enjoyed today's discussion, please consider showing your support by liking, commenting, and reviewing this episode on your favorite podcasting platform. Your feedback helps us reach more listeners and bring even better content your way. We'd also love to hear from you, so please drop a comment on Spotify or YouTube to share what topics you'd like us to cover or who you'd like to see as our next guest. And if you or someone you know would make a great guest, please reach out. We're always looking for fresh voices and new perspectives. For our NEO token holders out there, please consider voting for NEO news today as your council representative. We've proudly been serving the NEO ecosystem since 2017, and we'll continue to do so by putting portions of our council rewards directly back into ecosystem growth initiatives. So once again, thank you so much for listening to the Smart Economy podcast and we look forward to catching up with you next time.