it'll be harder for governments to get away with just taxing their people by, you know, printing more and more money, right? And that goes for us as well as foreign governments. Hey everyone, welcome to the Smart Economy podcast where we ask your favorite builders the questions you wish you could ask yourself. This is a production of neonnewstoday.com and I'm your host Dylan Grabowski. In this episode, we're joined by Paul Nuner, the CEO and founder of Telcoin, a digital cash services provider that was recently granted approval to open Nebraska's first digital asset bank. In this conversation, we discuss the origin story for Telcoin as a mobile payment solution for Telos, the statebased approach to banking regulations, the focus on using blockchain solutions for payment and not specific stable coins, the current state of the stable coin and market structure bills moving through Congress, Telcoin's goal to onboard three billion users across the globe, and so much more. Just a reminder, nothing said on this podcast is a solicitation to buy or sell any tokens and that the host or guest might hold tokens discussed in any given episode. You can view a disclaimer at neonnewtoday.com. And if you enjoyed this episode, please rate and review it on your favorite podcasting platform and share it with your friends and family. Every rating, review, like, and comment really does help us reach more people and bring you more of your favorite guests. With all that said, I really enjoyed speaking with Paul, and I hope you enjoy the conversation, too. Hey everyone, welcome to the Smart Economy podcast. Today, we're joined by Paul Nuner, the CEO and founder of Telcoin, which leverages blockchain technology to provide access to lowcost, highquality D5 products for mobile phone users around the world. How you doing today, Paul? I'm doing great. Thanks, Dylan. Yeah, I'm really excited about this conversation. I kind of want to talk about just like the genesis of Telcoin and then your stable coin offering and then also get your kind of insights into what stable coin regulations might look like in the US and the kind of trends we're seeing at a global level. But before we delve into all of that, um the genesis of Telcoin kind of starts before your entry into the crypto space. So before entering blockchain, you founded Mobius Wireless and Sedona. So can you just talk briefly about your uh the beginning of your working career and and why and what you were building in telecom? My background is in telecommunications and specifically in the fraud and security space. So you know I at least technically was intrigued by crypto when I first heard about it. Um but also really just saw distributed ledger as a perfect fit for telecommunications that it's the most distributed industry in the world. There's two or three mobile phone companies in every country. They have huge data centers close to 7 billion handsets and arguably knowing in terms of KYC knowing around 7 billion people to some extent. So that's kind of the original connection. Um and uh but yeah that's that's kind of where it came from. the fraud and security side is is really also just from me I saw that you know a lot of the cost to in financial services was really related to securing a transaction and that and that I think that telecoms have a great ability to do that technically. Do you see that um like the telecoms are are ready and able to kind of adopt blockchain particularly for like identity standards? Um because when we talk about like fraud and security, the first thing that pops to mind is like like decentralized identity or like giving an identity to an individual. And of course, you know, you mentioned decentralization. So the thing that we care about is not getting our data leaked when a centralized entity is is holding this. So telecoms move like glacially slow. Are your former peers starting to grock like the opportunities that are available with like distributed ID, decentralized ID and things of this nature or are we still kind of five 10 years away from that? Well, yeah, they they are slow in general. I mean we we were the first to join the the GSMA which is the largest telecom industry group uh in about 20 I think yeah right at the beginning of 2018 so we were the first blockchain company to join sorry and you know we've been banging on the door year after year we we joined all the conferences we've you know met a lot of very nice meetings I think that one of the issues that a lot of telecoms had particularly in the developing world where they were really already very much under the scrutiny of regulators in a lot of countries they're the largest company in the country and constantly getting accused of not paying enough tax etc. So they really wanted to avoid any additional scrutiny. Um, I do think that's rapidly changing now because uh particularly as the US has started to embrace all of this, but also just as as they see the promise of stable coins and what that can really mean to telecoms, I think they're starting to really understand the message that we've been preaching for a long time, which is that in the internet of money where there's just stable coins floating and directly transacting from consumer to merchant, um, the the telos's can play a very large role in running that internet of money just like they run the normal internet today. I think the the kind of revolution at least for millennials was watching the bunny hopping from landlines to mobile. Um, you know, the the world became connected in the late 90s, early 2000s when mobile really started taking off. And of course, that's the main value prop of of blockchain and crypto is anyone with access to the internet can download a wallet and start participating in this global commerce. Um, so it's really exciting to kind of see that you're sticking with the leaprog and kind of jumping into the stablecoin ecosystem after having started your career in the telecom space. So before we kind of like come closer to the ground, I do want to hear about your genesis story with Bitcoin or ETH or whatever it was. Um, Telco Telcoin was founded in early 2017. So, I would assume that you you're here from the pre ICO era. So, what was kind of like your first entrance into Bitcoin or Ethereum? What were your initial thoughts? Did Did it take a couple years for you to have your aha moment? So, yeah, I I heard about crypto. Well, first of all, our ICO was right at the end of 2017, right? I think we launched it around Christmas time and closed it right after New Year's. That was, you know, there was a boom if you remember that if you look at the ETH, you know, charts back then and Bitcoin right before it. There was kind of a a boom there. But earlier in the year, I I'd been to I remember going actually to Miami to a GSMA conference and somebody sat up there talking about how blockchain could be used to to effectively validate intercarrier uh communication. Like for example, a lot one of the big fraud problems that telecoms face is what's called bypass fraud where you know they they disguise international calls as as domestic calls or they route SMS from your you know that you get a onetime password to through a cheaper route which is not very secure for you but it also cheats the telecom and also the tax authorities out of a lot of revenue. Essentially what this guy was proposing was um that you could do that all on blockchain and I think it's possible. It's not really the most efficient way to do it though. You're talking about bu l literally billions of records a day and actually trying to use that to reconcile uh records between um carriers was at least not very practical at the time. But anyway, that that's what really got me first thinking about it as opposed to the finance side of it or Bitcoin. I mean, of course, I'd heard about it, but that got me really thinking about the technology. Came back to Tokyo. I was based in Tokyo at the time and and sat down with colleagues and and really talked through and we finally just settled on the idea of instead of doing something under the hood, let's go ahead and try to create a a token that could uh be a bridge between mobile money platforms, telecom run, e-wallets essentially. And that that's kind of where the original where we started. Um the overlying or the the the the basic premise though was we thought that distributed ledger made sense for telecoms. Uh but the original use case was crossber transfers and that that sort of evolved um into more of a stable coin play just because that you don't hear from too many ICO era projects today in April 2025. Um, so like what's a a nugget of gold that you've taken away from Telcoin's ability to survive like two pretty brutal bare markets? Um, having been an ICO project, right? So, we I mean I I think I was a little bit fortunate that I I wasn't really looking for the ICO to make any personal profit. I didn't really need the uh fund, you know, the money really at the time. And so not not that that was you know the company was obviously from day one trying to make money but it wasn't looking at the ICO as a way to actually just get rich quick or anything like that. So um we probably could have given a little bit more thought at the early side of how we you know the early stage of how we maybe could uh capitalize on it but honestly I think it's better that we didn't. We we we were very genuine in our white paper and our approach to really trying to set aside as much of the the token for mobile networks. I mean unfortunately it took us a really really long time to convince mobile networks to really get on board and we effectively had to I think become a become a bank first and and get into the whole stable coin game. But the token you know that that is really where we started and it's what formed our community and and generated a lot of interest in what we were doing. So, you know, it was it it's it was a journey. I think that the the bare markets really honestly flushed out a lot of the people that weren't true believers in what we were doing. So, it made us a better company uh for it in the long run. Cool. So, we're going to talk a little bit about how Telcoin is becoming like a a neo bank or or like a new state chartered banking like entity, but I do want to kind of hear, you know, from an 8-year-old project, seven and a half year old project now. How did you envision Telcoin when you first launched it and how has that kind of vision or mission for the company kind of adapted and changed over the past seven and a half years? So the the original concept was really just engaging with telecoms and engaging with their mobile money platforms. One of the one of the issues that we ran into pretty early on is that the first license we got was in Singapore with the MAS, the Monetary Authority of Singapore. We got a major payment institution license, but none of none of the banks would work with us. And that wasn't only us. I mean, MAS was really struggling with the fact that they'd give out licenses, but but none of their banks would work with any of the licensed entities that were dealing with crypto. And, you know, the reason was Standard Charter, HSBC, there's, you know, a number of uh Singapore-based or Singapore banks and that that received huge fines from the US government. And so, they were very very cautious about anything that could be cons construed as an AML risk. I remember distinctly in the end of 2019, so before or actually I guess very beginning of 2020, uh our Singapore attorneys joking that it was probably going to be easier for us to create a bank, a digital asset bank in the United States and bridge it to to Singapore or branch it to Singapore rather than to simply open a normal bank account in Singapore. And we laughed at the time, but it turned out to be true. I think the the point is that really a lot of these central banks and also just banks around the world were their AML programs really revolved around fear and fear of being sanctioned by the US. So the only way to really solve that problem was I thought was to move the nexus of the company in the United States, not be afraid of that, really embrace um regulation and effectively become a digital asset bank and and that foundation is really what needed that solved our problem, but we also saw that this is solving a problem for kind of the rest of the ecosystem. So we're we're really really excited about finally getting to that point. Yeah, you guys moved right into the belly of the beast and there was a lot of up until like Trump's election basically there was just a lot of regulatory and legislative confusion not very much a positive outlook on this industry actually some might say was looking dire and pretty negative. So in 20 late 2019 early 2020 how did you guys look around in the US and find uh a favorable jurisdiction to land in and to start working with? So I you know I first looked at the one charter that had recently been created in Wyoming that custodia you know applied for and I think you you know that story. So my Notre Dame roommate and best friend um Mike Floyd, who's now in US Congress on financial services, but he was with the Nebraska legislature at the time and he had been the head of the department of banking there or sorry the banking committee. He said, you know, forget about Wyoming, why don't you come visit uh Nebraska? So, you know, we met with Governor Rickettts and he was extremely supportive. uh he saw this as an opportunity for Nebraska in the future to become a a haven for uh correspondent banking for digital assets. The idea being that really only the largest banks are going to be able to digital assets inhouse. I think the vast majority of them are are really going to look towards a banker's bank for digital assets, a corresponding bank that helps uh process that as a sort of white label product. And and that's something that's actually very beautiful about the state system. There's a lot of inefficiencies about you know our state system but one of the great things is that certain states can decide to invite certain technologies have a lighter regulatory touch and and be more sort of a petradish for for different technologies and and you know Nebraska has a history of that with in card processing and insurance industries and and so he he saw that immediately as as an opportunity. his head of department banking had was stepping out at the time and he helped us draft the legislation also with the help of general counsel from uh in Wyoming. But we really took it more from the angle and we saw the struggles that custodia was going through and we took it really more from the angle of how how would a bank do this as opposed to how how is this going to disrupt banking? How would banks actually do this and do this as as a more from the inside. So the the legislation was really drafted in close cooperation with uh with banks with with the Nebraska bankers association with some local bankers and also with the uniform law commissioners. So the Nebraska was the first state to uh publish a or sorry to to pass a UCCC update that effectively allowed you to perfect a security in a in a control in an electronic control record. very complicated, but that basically means that it gives a a a depository institution legal grounds to use crypto custody underneath a, you know, to to underneath a loan that it would give to somebody else. So, it really allows, you know, banking to use uh to use digital assets. Yeah. And so this obviously got overturned last year, but there was SAB 121, which basically changed the recording and reporting methods for how banks were supposed to have crypto on their balance sheets on behalf of their clients. And so you mentioned that the states are great because each of the different 50 states acts as a different petri dish and they can kind of have different directions that they go with supporting statebased legislation for digital assets. But like at the end of the day the Fed kind of overarches everything. So when one when SAB 121 was enacted was this kind of a threat to what you guys were working on? Were there ways around SAB 121 to to kind of like work through it? What did that mean to to telcoins kind of like gamble on getting a state-based charter? How how did you guys deal with that while it was going on? Well, we were very supportive of repealing sub 121 and you know obviously flood drove that and we had a lot of discussions about it because the large banks are are slow. You think telecoms are slowm moving beasts. I mean these the large banks are as well and they're particularly since the financial crisis they're they're locked into their business model very much so by the regulatory requirements. I mean, I I've been on the board of a a FTSC insured bank now for four three years, and that has been very interesting to see a sort of a wizard wizard of Oz behind the curtain look at um how how the books of a bank appear, right? And there's all sorts of stress tests and various metrics that regulators force upon banks that make it very hard for them to immediately change their business model. It's it's like that, you know, a Titanic. Um, and so I I think that it everybody, you know, it's a massive market here and I think everyone benefits from banks embracing digital assets and being able to do that. Uh, and so, you know, if if Bank of America suddenly allowed you to take all of your deposits off balance sheet into stable coins, the their entire business would implode overnight, right? So, so yeah, I I I think that we we saw that. I I understand how, you know, you could say, well, why do you even need a digital asset bank if a normal bank can now custom digital assets, but there's a lot to be said for not only the the technical requirements, but also the type of risk that's being engaged by the institution is very different from what the FDI currently ensures, which is balance sheet risk against bad loans that you might give out. Um, so there there's definitely going to be a need to bifurcate or to sort of firewall the two activities and and so so I think there's there's benefit to just being an institution that strictly focuses on the digital asset side of things. Yeah. I mean, if I want my dad to get into crypto, I would prefer him to go through some sort of like onchain solution like a stable coin and through a banking entity where there is FDIC insurance. and I know he's not going to get screwed over by his own mistakes of not managing a wallet um or buying the wrong token or sending the wrong thing. I think overwhelmingly if we're trying to onboard the first billion users, the banks have a very important role to play in that or just a traditional like entity. So I was definitely on the side of of repealing SAB 121 and and in favor of supporting banks. You might not find that necessarily among the anons of crypto Twitter. the the cippher punk thesis and ethos. But, you know, I think when we're looking at at bringing a huge wave of of capital on chain and new users that there does need to be something familiar that we've had for 100 plus years that has learned from its mistakes over the past 100 plus years and and added kind of safeguard rails to protect themselves and to protect their their clients and customers. I do kind of want to zoom in a little bit or or double click on the reference you made to custodia. From what I understand is custodia's main value prop was fighting what the banks do in terms of fractional reserve lending. So at a very high level and please correct me where I'm wrong or help me delve further into this. You know there was a onetoone backing for any asset that was put into custodia. And because of this they were going against the basic inherent nature of a bank to conduct fractional reserve lending which is how banks make money. So it was kind of fighting the the incumbents and the way that they operate. So, how did you guys kind of like see that Custodia was maybe trying to fight the waves, was trying to fight gravity, um, and maybe even making a bad name for themselves because they were trying to to make the the tide go out and show everyone who was wearing bathing suits or not. How did you kind of see what custodia was doing and implement the things that you were seeing they were running against into your processes to make it easier to become a state chartered digital asset banking solution? I have a great deal of respect for Caitlyn Long and and custodian and everything they've they've been doing. Um, in many ways they sort of went out in front and took a lot of the arrows and and we we really tried to just sort of lay low a little bit more. But as you pointed out, I think that we also really just looked at this as a different technology. We weren't really trying to change the fact that there's still going to be need to be an institution that uh figures out who, you know, offers loans and and and these sorts of things. I we just thought and I think that it gets to sort of her point is that that doesn't need to be the same institution or at least should be firewalled from the institution that's providing you that payment solution, right? just because of the fact that like you should have an an easy option to hold something that's one for one back. We we plan to be the first to attach a US bank account number native, you know, directly to a natively minted digital dollar that's self-custodied that's not on the balance sheet of a bank. Um, and then, you know, as a you could then decide to oneclick it into a digital version of a yieldbearing product, right, with the with us or with another bank. uh just you know the the point is it's sort of like that that story of the and I don't even know if this is true. I've heard this is not even a true story but uh the fishermen in India when when cell phones first were introduced the balance of power suddenly shifted from the people managing the docks to the fishermen because they anytime a fisherman went out and had a big catch they'd text into like five different docks and and get the best price. um whether or not it's true uh it's a very good story and it and makes a good point and I think that this is happening or this is a lot you know enabled by what we're offering right if if you decouple the the Fed rail from bank custody you know being forced to have your salary always go directly into the custody of a single bank you'll have a lot more uh a lot more ability to get the best rate that you you can right I remember when interest rates jumped up Um, a few years back, my mother back in St. Louis was trying to figure out where she could get like 4% CD or SA high yield savings, and she found a a bank. She had to drive like 30 minutes uh in Missouri to this bank, open the account, sat down for two hours, open the account, and then she had to go back to Commerce Bank and figure out how she could do a wire transfer. She'd never really done that before in her life. the whole it was a dayong process and uh that really struck me you know why is it that hard the modern day we have the internet why is it that you can't you know move your money as fast as the internet that's a great example um my grandma was really into CDs as well and you know byproduct of of World War II and kind of the Great Depression era so uh safety and security was kind of her top concern and I think we're in a world right now where like safety and security of of our assets and and US debt instruments is is kind of top of mind. So, with like gold going up right now in April of 2025 for anyone who's listening to this in the future and 30-year bond rates going up and kind of the Dixie going down, where does Telcoin kind of fit into this emerging new world where the the future of the dollar, we we can't depend on it being super strong or or it's going to have relative weakness. Everything is just in flux right now uh with this administration. So, how do you guys kind of take advantage of these tumultuous moments? Is this an opportunity or a constraint? Oh, absolutely. I think it's an opportunity. One of the things that I think what we're doing will uh will will affect is that, you know, it'll be harder for governments to get away with just taxing their people by, you know, printing more and more money, right? And that goes for us as well as foreign governments. um in in DC a lot of conversations you know there's a priority to have you know more and more people hold the US dollar and and I argue that if you want a Kenyan or a Mexican or a Turk to hold US dollars you have to issue an an e Mexican peso Kenya shilling or Turkish lera and and and really see that more as a gateway to the internet of money and obviously if a country like in Turkey look what's happened recently they can't get away with that anymore and if if their citizens can now easily one click into the US dollar but also we won't be able to get away with that. So so I think that globally it'll have a positive effect in and sort of freeing people from those sorts of relationships in in countries where you know the fiscal responsibility kind of goes off the rails. Do you guys have a physical office in Nebraska for like your mom to go to? because my dad thinks that technology is the downfall of society and I can't get him to use a brand new app, but he will go to a bank, a physical bank. So, is that going to be part of of the offerings for EUSD? Oh, are you are you in Nebraska? No, I'm not. But, um I'm just I'm just curious because you brought up a great example. There's not a lot of Nebraska there's not a lot of Miami Dolphin fans in Nebraska. No, I'm in I'm proudly in Colorado. Nice. Um yeah, we do have a physical office. Um we we've had you know discussions with the department of banking about whether we should open physical office. Now we we aren't you know sure actually people technically according to our charter we're saying that yeah they can walk in and ask for customer support and anyone can walk in but we won't have like a teller or anything right. Uh effectively we'll be turning every ATM in the United States into a Bitcoin ATM though. Uh so it's not like you know that's a separate a separate topic but um but in terms of physical branch we would love to do that at some point um some some sort of innovative you know cafe style or who knows what we could do or some some sort of collaboration but know for right now we're uh we're really looking for the trust in the fact that it's regulated that means a lot to people especially overseas and and working with a lot of these telecoms now that they suddenly see that we have this regulated bank in in establishment. It's really been enormous for our ability to convince them that this is all something that they should invest in. This sounds like a phenomenal sound bite. Can you double click on how you're turning every bank or every ATM in the US into a Bitcoin ATM? Essentially, once you once you've connected a a bank account natively to an EUD balance, then you've done that, right? Um and and so the the problem with Bitcoin ATMs that that have gotten them into into a lot of pro a lot of trouble is that sure they they create the technology for to do that but they haven't really thought about uh all of the anti-moneyaundering or other controls that you know they need to do to have it be accepted by regulators. So um so yeah that's that's what we feel we'll be doing with you know unveiling of this bank. So, one of the things in in digging around Telcoin and EUSD offering is you guys aren't leveraging the term stable coin. You're saying digital cash. So, is there like a differentiation as to why you're using different nomenclature or different wording? Yeah, I never really like the term stable coin. It sounds like something that is okay. essentially taking saying that this digital thing represents or or is is stably tied to the value of this underlying asset. The whole point of a bank and the reason why if a a bank does something like this, it's not considered a security by US law or Canadian law or others is that the because it's a regulated institution. Uh the the digital the digital thing can legally represent the underlying asset as opposed to being as two separate things, one stably tied to try to track to the value of the other. So that's where I I see it as legally speaking, it is a digital equivalent of the paper US dollar. Of course, it's issued by a regulated bank versus the Treasury. U but legally speaking, it it is not two separate things, one tied or pegged to the other. One legally represents the other, if that makes any sense. So that's why we really look more towards the the term digital cash versus stable coin is we believe this is enabling the digital equivalent of handing the the the the merchant a $20 bill. Got it. And so when we're looking at when we when we take a look at the the stable coin or volatility reduced coin ecosystem there's basically like three major players right now. There's fiatbacked stable coins which is either backed by at onetoone with a dollar in a bank account somewhere or a US debt instrument. There's overcolateralized stable coins where there's 150% of a crypto acting as collateral for a stable coin. And then there's algorithmic stable coins which we've seen the the fall and rise uh spectacular falls over over the past few years. What is Telcoin leveraging? How are you guys backing the EUSD digital dollar? Well, it's it's one to one backed. Um, but it's that the way that we back it is determined by the legislation. The Nebraska legislation is very similar to the draft federal legislation, which is essentially cash and cash equivalents can include short-term treasuries and repo notes and that sort of thing, but it's effectively cash, right? And but the more important thing is that you you don't really think about how it's backed because it's a regulated institution that's in you know that sort of backing is enforced. We'll we'll still adhere to the same sort of transparency expectations of of others. But part of the point is that you're trusting in it's not you're not the the way that we back it is not uh defined by a policy of our company. It's defined by you know the law of the of the land and and enforced by the regulators. Yeah. So when people think of like uh forwardthinking blockchain entities in the US you think like New York or San Francisco because this is these are these developer hotbeds or as you mentioned earlier Wyoming because they're exploring ways in which the state supports Dows. Um, maybe even like Texas right now because Bitcoin miners are being incentivized to kind of collaborate with the state of Texas and with the the Texas energy networks for for kind of a symbiotic relationship. Nebraska, this is kind of like the first time I've ever heard Nebraska jump onto the blockchain scene. So, do you you guys are kind of like the trailblazers in this. Are you already seeing your peers or other folks in the industry who are interested in building similar solutions to what Telcoin is doing? Are you starting to see a little bit more chatter emerge on the radio waves about wanting to locate in Nebraska? Um, is it too soon? Because I know that this was just recently approved. Um, what's kind of like the finger on the pulse for Nebraska rising on the the blockchain radar? Well, I mean I I think well I do know that they've had a lot of inbound requests and so there there is definitely a lot of interest. Um you know I think for everybody that there the fit might be different. You know some of the larger companies will look at an OC federal charter but I do think that if you know there's there's a huge benefit to going with a state regulator. you know, in the United States, a a state bank can operate uh in in in all 50 states and also in all the ways that a bank in a federally chartered bank can. Uh there there are some details in that that that need to be worked out and will be will get worked out. But the bottom line is I think that for anyone innovating that really is interested in the benefits of being a a state charter bank, which is frankly a lot less costly than operating a federally chartered bank. So if you're trying to do if you're a startup, I would highly encourage you to work with a a state department of banking like uh the one in Nebraska. And they've been phenomenal. They it's that's not a rubber stamp uh regulator. They have they know what they're doing. They've spent a huge amount of time getting their whole team educated on digital assets and and um you know they they want this to work and they they're very excited about helping companies uh figure out how to make their their dreams a reality and make you know build something beautiful. Can you share some more of the features that are banking like that Telcoin offers? like if what what would I as a as a user who's who's looking to get away from the large guys? We don't have to mention any names, but but like I'm looking for a new maybe more responsive, maybe a more innovative bank. What what would I look at for Telcoin? What are the banking like features that I can take advantage of? What's something that's familiar to me, but what's also something that's new to me that isn't offered by like aundred year plus old bank? The charter has the ability to do essentially everything that a normal bank would do, but it's medium of exchanges and an EUSD or digital assass as opposed to a fiat currency. Um, but ultimately it's really about just a newer technology and and we'll evolve and and get into a lot of the different things that you might expect uh your normal bank do and hopefully we'll do it in a more efficient way. uh for at the beginning we're really just focused on the foundational building block which is payments and and just the underlying digital dollar connecting that with the the current global financial system. I think that early on if you're interested in multicurrency, this is something that would be, you know, if you have friends and family abroad, you want to easily be able to hold Mexican pesos, they want to be able to hold US dollars, and you want to be on the same like your like a global version of Venmo multicurrency. Uh, that's something that would be of interest. Well, also just a higher yield. I think we'll be able to very quickly give a higher yield. Um, and if you want not only a a bank account number that your salary can go straight into something that's giving you a great yield, but also can seamlessly attach to digital assets will be interesting for you from the very beginning. I think by the time our grand our grandparents or parents end up uh using this, they probably won't really even realize that you're they're using they certainly won't call it a stable coin. Yeah, because I think that a lot of banks will end up just integrating this into their technology and and a lot of merchant payments will effectively go this way, I think. So, you mentioned payments from from my perspective. I mean, like I came into to crypto during the ICO era and back then the the main thing was from the institutions, it was blockchain, not Bitcoin. But then we were also talking about buying a cup of coffee with Bitcoin. So, from my perspective, when I think of payments, I think of two things. Um, a can I go to Starbucks and just like use this to buy a coffee, but b can I use this to buy something on the internet like from Amazon or to pay for for some good and service? So, what's kind of like the payment strategy? Is it gonna be kind of like a mom and pop shop, like I'm able to to use ZUSD to buy eggs and bacon at like a breakfast restaurant, or is this going to be something that's kind of like ubiquitous and I can just kind of like swap it in for any payment for ecommerce? So, all the major payment providers seem to be working on stable coin pilot. So, I think before too long you'll start to see sort of like you'll see PayPal in addition to credit card as an e-commerce option. I think you'll start to see uh stablecoin as an option on e-commerce. To me, that's that's a pretty easy one. Um I I think that what we're a little bit I mean so we'll support that and we'll we'll join those. But what we're a little more focused on is you'll have I think this is a multi-phase process, right? uh we can enable the digital equivalent to handing the merchant a $10 bill, but you know, how do the how do you actually get the merchant on board? I think the first step is obviously we'll issue Visa cards that that pull from their your balance. That's straightforward. Should still the merchant doesn't have to have ever heard of stable coins or or crypto. Um and it that would clear through the normal system, right? through the PSP, Visa, Mastercard processing from the issuing merchant bank through the from the issuing bank to merchant bank. Um the second phase is when these stripes of the world start to effectively accept that for a digital cash card or balance. In other words, uh bypassing Visa, Mastercard and facilitating instead of like right now when you tap, you're you're signing an IOU uh between agreement between you and the merchant that then sets the stage to facilitate this ledger balance transfer from your bank to the merchants's bank. Effectively, it might be a credit card where there's an intermediate step, but that's what's going on. what what what we're talking about is that now the PSP the premium service provider or the the whoever has the the the point of sale machine that you're tapping um they can actually instead of facilitating that ledger balance transfer between the two banks they can facilitate the merchant just cashing out their EUSD so it has a huge ram privacy ramification as well I I I don't need to identify myself with every single transaction I think a lot of people are frustrated that ever since COVID cashless means identifying themselves with every single transaction, which I think uh it doesn't need to happen. Um it also wouldn't involve my bank at all. Right? I'm directly transferring custody of this EUSD balance to the merchant. All Stripe's got to do at the end of the day is just cash that out in a single USD transfer taking their EUSD. And I think that's going to happen. And that cuts out I I think effectively that cuts out everybody except Google Pay, Apple Pay because they're helping secure your handset and the biometrics, right? And then whoever owns that POS, they're they're each going to get their 15 to 30 bips and then everybody else, I think, is gets cut out. Now, this this doesn't make sense for all sorts of uh purchases because if you're if you're not sure about the quality of what you're getting, right? Or you think you might need to dispute, you know, something, you shouldn't use this. You should treat it like, hey, if if I've handed the guy a paper $100 bill, how hard is it to me to get my money back? Right? And that that's what I so so there is a little bit of a consumer education that this is digital cash. uh your recourse is not necessarily the same, although this is way cheaper and this is uh can work better. Yeah. So, I guess maybe just to make sure I understand, I wouldn't need to go to a merchant that accepts EUSD. I would need to open up a debit account with Telcoin, populate it with the equivalent of a stable co stable coin or digital cash. So, like put $1,000, right? And then you use our our Visa card and and get started. That that's phase one, right? Right. Phase two is more the where you you start and the payment service provider start to realize we don't need to run this through all of those inter intermediaries. So you know that and and there's a lot of you know banks and a lot of parties that are interested in this. I mean ultimately the whole idea of the technology is that it's making things more efficient. Why is it that every, you know, every single tap costs like 2.7% or whatever on average in the US? It doesn't need to be that way. In a lot of foreign foreign in foreign countries, you have even more uh issues with that because why are we giving this to a foreign company, right, for every single transaction that our our population is making. So I think then if we start migrating to a world where merchants and mom and pop shops and the stripes of the world want to start using digital cash, stable coins, dollar equivalents, we're we're starting to see this massive emergence of competitors. So like the the stable coin market cap right now is 227.23 billion according to rwa.xyz. The overwhelming majority is Tether and Circle. So clearly you guys see an opportunity to enter this market and to compete, but so do like 40 other digital cash stable coin providers. So like what's the end game then? We're trying to take market share away from Tether, but like I also don't want to have 40 different USD equivalents. So like is there interoperability? Are there going to be like stable coin networks that you can swap these between? What's the endgame look like for competing but also cooperating with other service providers? Well, that's why we chose just an EUSD, EXYZ. We're not really trying to brand some new stable coin. We're talking about a technology that, you know, any bank could decide they want to issue an EUSD or electronic dollar. uh it's more about the technology and you know Tether Tether has a market share in stable coins but not in payments or you know so so I do think and I also think that competition is great I mean if a lot of people want to do this that's great right I think that's we're just at the tip of the iceberg it's a really really massive market and and we think that obviously getting out ahead of of the technology it's the more the marrier right um that that's that's our feelings we're we're not we're we're taking a little bit more open approach to this and um and and I think that's the best uh path at this point. So with the USD and Telcoin's approach, it doesn't matter if Tether's the winner or there are 50 other winners. This is kind of like a blockchain layer that's going to be able to leverage all the different players. Well, I mean I I wouldn't necessarily say that about Tether. Um I would I'm saying that what the the path that we're going I think is really going to focus more on the technology of payments and the technology of banking and and we're happy for you know Bank of America or Chase or all these people start doing issuing their own stable coins that's great you know I think that means that the merchants and payment service providers are really going to adopt this and everybody's payments are going to be a lot cheaper and there's also sorts of things that can be done particularly in the loyalty setup that that I think will be great for merchants and consumers a lot better than the current situation. The current situation is the merchants are paying an average of like 2.3 really more like 3% uh on every on average every transaction and they kick about 7 of that back to less than 1% in value back to the the consumer in the form of like airline miles or something and that's how they keep you kind of locked into that. Um, but that's what we're talking about is something where you could a merchant could without even asking you to sign up for any sort of loyalty program. If they start directly accepting this, it could kick back 5% of EUSD that can only be spent at that that restaurant or that establishment or that store again in the next year. And if it's not spent, it goes back to the to the merchant. Much better for the merchant. They're sure they're giving 5% instead of 3% but they they're that stays on their balance sheet. They're eventually going to get it right. Much better for the consumer. You're getting a lot more than than you're getting from the current schemes. Um and you don't have to sign up for some loyalty program to do that and disclose your stuff to marketing campaigns and whatnot. So, so I think a lot of interesting there's a lot more that can be uh done that'll be better for consumers and merchants in this system. Yeah. Lo loyalty and and rewards programs to me since day one have seemed like a kind of killer use case that I'm shocked haven't really taken off yet. Yeah, I think that they really require that foundation of digital cash that's bank issued to work. Um and so I'm hoping that that that's something that really can take off next year. So zooming out, we're kind of seeing uh two bills go through Congress right now. There's there's the the Genius Act that's going through Senate and there's the Stable Act that's going through the House. Um, how do these two different bills impact your outlook? Um, is one more favorable to what Telcoin is looking to build with EUSD? Does one bolster statebased solutions more than the other? What's just your general perspective on these two bills? So yeah, we've spent a long time working with the teams on both sides and what I can say is that you know they've both been very open ears and I've seen these evolve and they're taking everybody's recommendations. So the we've really focused on the impact and and interoperabil basically the state's role obviously because we're working with the state charter and you know I I'd say you know both of them do accommodate what we're doing and are and both of them are maintaining that state option. they they take a two different approaches to how to kind of do that responsibly, which without getting into the weeds, we can totally work with both of them. Um I so I I don't think it'll be very hard for them to reconcile or to, you know, to get to a final bill. uh they're both they both effectively maintain or extend the current interbank state interbanks uh interstate banking system into the stable coin realm. Uh so that's good. Yeah. One of the kind of really interesting things that perked my ears when I was reading through the the most recent markedup version of the stable act was the inclusion of interoperability on decentralized networks. So, I I don't know if that was you and your peers that kind of got the legislators to include that, but it's really kind of fascinating to see that uh like a layer zero or wormhole or something like this is going to be leveraged for stable coins to interoperate between different uh ecosystems. So, like how much of that was you and your peers kind of pulling on the ear of legislators and saying, you know, sometimes these stable coins live on different networks and they need to be able to move between different networks. And how much of that do you think from your perspective was kind of legislators being forward thinking and really understanding this this technology? Well, we definitely uh we definitely made an effort and I think that we had a large influence. Um, it's also their staffers, right? They the the key people on this have great staff that have really taken the effort to understand all this. U, but no, that's something that we preached from very early on. You'll notice that the Nebraska legislation is the first charter in the United States that's explicitly authorized to connect consumers to DeFi. That's a big deal. And so we really also then pushed that at the federal level essentially arguing that there is a national security interest in being at the center of the internet of money. And the only way you do that is if you authorize the uh the financial institutions who are getting involved in this to connect people to permissionless public open uh networks and I think we were successful in making that argument. So, from your stance, I know that this is a speculative question, but you're you're rubbing elbows with the folks who who are in DC. Do you think we see legislation pass for for some sort of stable coin bill in 2025? Uh, absolutely. I think that the target right now is in May. Um, and then the target for the market structure bill is in August. there's some effort by a few to um join the two together I think just to ensure that the market structure bill actually happens this year. Uh but that's just testament to the the belief that the stable coin bill absolutely will become law this year. And so it's it's either in May that's the target or it's going to happen later in the year. So there's two like I mentioned earlier there's the stable act and the Genius Act. These are two separate bills moving through Congress. They each have their own nuances. What does it look like for a May proposal and approval? Is is one likely to succeed the other? Is there going to be some sort of combination? How does this look? Because from the outside, it's very confusing. You have two separate bills. There's there's very different opinions and nuances between them and there has to be some sort of reconciliation. So, is one going to kind of like take the lead or is there going to be some sort of conglomeration between the two of them? Oh, I I don't know if I mean I I think you've had uh you know the House was I think working on this for a lot longer, although you know people also in the Senate with with Lumis and others um obviously were pushing for this as well. So I I think I know they're working very you know collaboratively on this and again I don't think the bills are very far apart. There's been a tremendous amount of collaborative work on this so far this year and I think they'll get it done after the stable coin bill passes. You mentioned market structure. From your perspective, from what Telcoin is building and and what you're trying to offer with EUSD, does market structure, Bill impact you guys in a positive or negative way? Is is your job really going to start taking off once the stable coin bill passes? What does what does the impact of of both bills really have on you? Well, I mean the stable coin bill is obviously more important for us to get off the ground, but the market structure bill is huge for all of the things that can be built on top of what we're building, right? So, you know, my understanding is that you'll have two parallel paths similar to a a Hester Pierce. Yeah. So, you know, similar to what she had proposed, I think you'll have a a light or weight registration process that's down one of two paths. Either a utility token or security token and CFTC and and SEC. That's who knows I I don't know what it'll be, but they both seem to be very very actively trying to figure this out and in a constructive manner. So, so yeah, I think that we're excited about that because all the things are going to be built on top of what we're doing, right? In terms of tokenizing securities and and commodities and and whatnot. Yeah, that that was uh the safe harbor. Yes, exactly. Forward. Cool. Um, so kind of zooming out when I was preparing for this interview, um, I saw that you were at D last year, you were probably at D this year. And one of the emerging narratives that may may not be new to people listening to this, but if you go on to like crypto Twitter and you see all the anons who've been here for three, four, seven years, the vibes are just bad. Everybody's upset. Tokens aren't going up. they're they're they're mad that their insert token here isn't mooning. But when you hear podcasts from people that were at DS or who are rubbing elbows with these institutional entities, there's just a lot of positive and favorable outlook for this asset class and also for the technology. So what gives? Why is there such a divergence between like long holding crypto users and folks who are starting to like really become public about the solutions they're building on top of blockchain at like a larger scale enterprise institutional level? Well, that's a great question. Um, I I just think that, you know, we need to get excited about the fact that this is going mainstream. I mean, there's you you see on Twitter and and and wherever all sorts of hype about this token or that token and or this project, but it's effectively a pretty small percentage of the population that's actually gambling on these meme coins or or what have you. And and I I think that the the ocean is just much larger once this hits mainstream adoption. And but you know, that's also more maybe more muted, right? um the so and I do also think like you mentioned earlier that there's a segment of the you know supporters of this that are a little bit more maximalists who maybe don't like the fact that it's going mainstream. Uh I just encourage them to understand that you know you really need this regulated doorway to this for for for all this technology to really take off and to reach real world application adoption and that's going to benefit every I think all aspects of this. it may maybe isn't good for people that want to just use crypto to to do something bad or hide their money, but uh you know for all of the genuine uh efforts to do some real world application, I think this is it's you know obviously institutional and and regulatory adoption is is great. In April of this year, Standard Chartered predicted a $2 trillion market cap for stable coins by the end of 2028. Um, do you align with that vision that they share? Oh, absolutely. I I think that, you know, even even Yeah, it depends how you're going to count it, too, because once it really goes mainstream, you'll have a whole lot of deposits there effectively in stable coins. In other words, it's a stable coin that's running free, but then maybe it's deposited and on the balance sheet of a bank. Is it really different whether it's the underlying fiat or in other words I think that once banks and payment systems really start using stable coins or digital cash more and more as the medium of exchange and a medium of of banking that the the market cap or whatever of of stable coins if you will is is obviously going to be massive. Awesome. So what's next on Telcoin's roadmap? um what's something that you're excited about going live within the next quarter or two? So, we're I mean we're obviously really excited to turn the digital asset bank on in in the US. Um, but we're also focused very heavily on uh within a year getting to where we have three billion people addressable market. Three billion people that can open an account with us or download our app and get a local bank account number directive directly flowing into their country's uh digital cash equivalent of their currency. And and so that's that's kind of our north star at least from the consumer product standpoint and and that's something we're really excited about. Awesome. So, if one of those three billion people are listening to this podcast, what's the best way that they can reach out to you? Yeah. So, if someone wants to reach me, um I I I'm not really on Telegram, but uh email Paul at Telcoin. Awesome. Well, Paul, thank you so much for taking the time to share a little bit about the the hard work that you guys put in with the Nebraska legislature and about your perspectives on how stable coins are going to become a killer app in payments. Um, and for also just sharing some of your insights from the federal legislative process. Um, it's a really exciting time right now to be in the crypto and blockchain space regardless of people's favorite coins not going up. So, thank you so much for your time today. Thank you very much, Dylan. It was a pleasure to meet you. Cheers. All right. Cheers. Thank you so much for tuning in to the Smart Economy Podcast. To stay in the loop with all our latest episodes and insights, head over to www.smarteconomyodcast.com. And don't forget to subscribe to our YouTube channel for all of our video content. If you enjoyed today's discussion, please show your support by liking, commenting, and reviewing this episode on your favorite podcasting platform. Your feedback helps us reach more listeners and brings even better content your way. We'd also love to hear from you, so please drop a comment on Spotify or YouTube to share what topics you'd like us to cover or who you'd like to see as our next guest. And if you or someone else you might know would make a great guest, please don't hesitate to reach out. We're always looking for fresh voices and new perspectives. And for our NEO token holders out there, please consider voting for NEON news today as your council representative. We've proudly been serving the NEO ecosystem since 2017. We'll continue to do so by putting portions of our council rewards directly back into ecosystem growth initiatives. Thank you once again so much for listening to this episode of the Smart Economy podcast and we will catch you next time.