You don't compete with your users. You follow what your users want and you build products that uniquely provide value. So what we're looking at from from the perspective of our product road map is what are the demands of the users and what are the niches where we can build and solve these demands better than than anything else that that exists today. [music] &gt;&gt; [music] &gt;&gt; Hey everyone, welcome to the Smart Economy podcast where we ask your favorite builders the questions you wish you could ask yourself. This is a production of neonnewstoday.com and I'm your host Dylan Grabowski. In this episode of the Smart Economy podcast, we're joined by Alex Glucowski, the co-founder and CEO of Matter Labs, the steward of the ZKSync ecosystem. In this conversation, we discussed blockchain's intersection of freedom and technology, zero knowledge proofs solving onchain scaling and identity, why Ethereum will continue to be used in 20 years, how the ZK stack out competes the OP stack, institutional adoption and institutional need for onchain privacy, and so much more. Just a reminder, nothing said in this podcast is a solicitation to buy or sell any tokens and that the guest or host might hold tokens discussed in any given episode. You can check out a full disclaimer at neonnewtoday.com. If you enjoyed this episode, please rate and review it on your favorite podcasting platform and share with your friends and family. Every rating, review, like, and comment really does help us reach more people and bring you more of your favorite guests. With all that said, I really enjoyed this conversation with Alex, and I hope you enjoy it, too. Hey everyone, welcome to the Smart Economy podcast. Today, we're joined by Alex Glowski, the co-founder and CEO of Matter Labs, an engineering team that is dedicated to stewarding the direction of the ZKsync ecosystem. Alex, how are you doing today? &gt;&gt; Pretty well, thank you. I'm excited to be here. &gt;&gt; Yeah, I'm super psyched. Um, just digging into I've been a big fan of ZKYNC for a long time, so I guess I'm coming in with a bias already of of being a fanboy, but before we kind of like dig into ZK Tech and L2s and the ZK stack and everything in general, um, you have kind of a fun winding path that led you to to building in blockchain. Um, so before you were in crypto, you were you were more broadly in tech. And I think um kind of like the the the wow moment when I was looking at what you were working in before was how you helped build Europe's largest camper marketplace. So can you just share a little bit about what your pre-blockchain background was and uh the winding roads that led you to building in Matter Labs? &gt;&gt; Absolutely. I uh my whole life I've been working uh in tech uh starting with high school doing math olympiads uh programming uh contests uh and then working in in computer science uh studying computer science working in in a number of startups as tech lead and and CTO um eventually co-founding a couple of things uh Paul Camper the largest camper sharing platform in Europe um one of them uh and then blockchain was the uh intersection of another passion of mine which is uh the idea of freedom. Uh like when I learned about Bitcoin, it felt like wow this is the combination of this very deep very interesting technological um thought combined with uh a product that can help more create more freedom for the world and that does so without having to go through the political process. You know you don't have to go and convince people. it just works like you buy more Bitcoin the price goes up everyone is happy u and then Ethereum was a natural extension of that where I saw the path for us to create a real alternative financial system and I think it's playing out really well in this long run over uh over the course of 10 years we are on cusp of actually uh entering the full scale global economy with Ethereum with stable coins with DeFi with all the other innovations that we're doing in crypto and um to me it's personally a uh emotionally very compelling um mission like we we've been on a mission to increase the world's freedom from the day one of uh starting Metal Labs and Ziki Singh uh because I am coming from a place where economic freedom was very restricted I was born in Soviet Union grew up in in Ukraine shortly after the collapse of Soviet Union experienced the hyperinflation for a couple of years with the prices would go up every day. Uh I remember how the trust in societal institutions and trust in society in general collapsed and everyone was on their own and you don't know who you can trust. You definitely don't trust the government. You definitely don't trust the financial system, the currency or the banks. No one in their sane mind would keep the savings in the bank. you would obviously do it with US dollars that you buy on the street and then and you have to guard them against criminals uh and you hide them somewhere in in your apartment. So it's very unpractical to move to store uh quite dangerous. Um and you don't have access to the global economy. You cannot invest in anything. You cannot you know your choices are very limited. Uh and then crypto fixes all of this like for real in uh Eastern Europe in in the parts of Asia, in Latin America, um everywhere. Crypto offers opportunities to people to uh preserve their savings and to to interact freely with other people all around the world. And this is I think um the has been most impactful and remains the most impactful way you can improve the world in my opinion. So like when when people think about privacy and our data online um you know if you say Facebook minds your data and they use that to make money off of you people are of course upset about it. And on paper, I I don't like the way that sounds, but the billions of people still use Facebook. Billions of people still use Instagram. Billions of people do not use privacy preserving web browsers like Brave. So, we have this weird dichotomy where people recognize they want their their digital sovereignty, they want to be able to protect their data, but they don't actually participate in ways that improve the security and the protection. So I'm curious from your perspective given the experience of of growing up in a rebuilding part of the world where you didn't have people who trusted the currency and the dollar or or the money. Are your peers from when you were growing up, are the people who are still living in Ukraine and these different parts of the fallen USSR, are they bought in to what blockchain and what cryptocurrencies can offer? Um, because using the experience of of Facebook and protecting your digital identity, people say they care, but they don't really use new technologies to improve that. So are you finding your peers, the people who are our age, um are they using like stable coins, bitcoin, privacy preserving cryptocurrencies, um is this something that has taken mainstream hold? &gt;&gt; Uh absolutely. Ukraine is one of the countries with the highest penetration of crypto in everyday use for for the reasons uh that that I explained before that I think this is a very deep um sense of mistrust in government that that has transcended generations and and even younger people have this and it's the same in lam uh when you talk about Facebook I think there are different degrees of um privacy uh importance like when you share cat pictures with your friends and then and NSA can can learn about it. Uh it maybe not something that bothers people that much but it's very different when it comes to your everyday financial transactions and your net worth and when imagine if everyone would be walking on the street and everyone else would know how much is how much money is in you. you would not feel safe especially you would not feel safe in in in the third world countries um or when uh uh a business would disclose all of this operations all of this payments all of this procurement um supply chains to all the competitors this would not work in real world the the reason people are so comfortable with crypto being open is they I think a lot of people have a um sense maybe losery sense of pseudonymity that oh I'm hiding like sure everyone can see my transactions but no one knows who I am and they can't connect the address to my name which is true to an extent if you're going through exchanges you want ramp off ramp etc um like it's it's not as publicly visible but it's actually very trackable and there is a very good ways to statistically analyze especially with AI so it's definitely something that is not going to work for businesses it's definitely not something that's going to work for institutions like if we're talking of on boarding crypto and integrating crypto in uh every aspect of the real world economy this is just a no-go. So and and apart from that of course we have a much deeper philosophical uh debate on cypher punk and and the relationship with governments in general and I'm a huge supporter like this this has been our core values uh at Ziki Singh for for a long time. Uh so I'm I'm really happy to see the the rise of Zcash again in the public uh my share and and all of this debate around like cyberpunk hardcore privacy. Uh and uh this this is absolutely fantastic. Um this is one part of uh of the privacy debate. The other part is how do we on board institutions and and businesses and they need slightly different set of tradeoffs and we need to support both. We need full personal privacy for individuals. We need this compliant privacy for institutions. And we need a way for them to interoperate very seamlessly. And this is going to happen with uh public blockchains uh such as uh uh Zcash and Ethereum uh uh with transparent bridges and yeah we we can talk more about that. Our focus at at Marabs and Ziki Sync has shifted from the um individual like focus on individual uh accounts and individual uh interactions to this more institutional enterprise space because we see the uh ROI on bringing the institutions in the crypto space today as the highest uh of what we can achieve to push this status quo forward with crypto in general. Yeah, I'm really excited to dig into Providium with you in a bit. Um, because if you go to like RWA.xyz, you can see all the RWAs, real world assets that are clearly becoming this large meta of institutional onboarding. And we're seeing equities, corporate bonds, private debt, stable coins, treasury bills, all of this, the the amount of capital that's coming on chain is just up and to the right on the chart. And so I'm really excited to to dig into Providium and how you guys are um meeting the institutions in the middle so that they can kind of like have a security enabled chain. But um I do want to touch on that a little bit later. Um before we kind of start going into the ZKSync ecosystem, um I'm just really curious to hear about um your your choice in when you started building. You you clearly stumbled upon Bitcoin um 2011, 2012, 2013, but Matter Labs wasn't founded until December 2018. So, what was the kind of moment in your mind, the turning point when you said, "Okay, I'm going to be leaving the kind of like computer science generalist world and I want to start building Matter Labs now. I want to start building in the blockchain space." And to kind of like add on to that, what was the vibe like back in December 2018? We were in the depths of the bare market back then. All your friends probably thought you were crazy. What was like the vision of what you wanted to build and was it very like ZK focused back then? &gt;&gt; It was the rise of Ethereum. So at this uh bear of 2018, it was right after the ICO hype. Um it was luckily not my first bear. I've experienced it with Bitcoin. I bought Bitcoin uh at a very low price. I think the first Bitcoin I bought was at $8 $80 when I was going buying all the way up to 700 and then I sold all of it at 300 uh because the the bear was prolonged and I thought like okay this that's that's it that that was the uh the end of Bitcoin but then with the second hype it was clear that yeah there's some cyclical market structure and we have a good chance that this will continue and and we will actually on board more people but with Bitcoin the problem was it was not usable. So you mentioned people using uh Facebook. I still want to come back to this. Um and you're relying on on like you're still like not caring about privacy, not not caring about some other aspects. People respond to incentives. They want to use products that solve their problems. They're not there to just altruistically and idealistically promote some agendas. They have a problem. They want a they want a solution and they they're going to pick the tool that is best suited to solve their problem with a set of trade-offs that they have with Bitcoin. This idea of hyper bitcoinization that everything is going to embrace Bitcoin and all the payments will happen there. Uh I tried to embrace that in the um camper sharing startup start start accepting payments in Bitcoin and I realized they cannot justify putting this on a road map cuz it has a cost but who's going to use it? Like it's it's not convenient. Most people cannot handle seed phrases. Like it was absolutely unthinkable that that you will have like everyone in in society using this clumsy technology that we had back then dealing with the volatility of the price uh dealing with security issues uh like handling security that properly as as you would expect from uh as as we know is necessary for self-custody crypto. But Ethereum rising gave a hope of solution to many of those problems. So we had ideas of stable coins floating around. We had the ideas of smart contract wallets. I am surprised that it took us 8 or 10 years to actually like fully implement on those because it those problems felt like they are relatively simple and we have people with web two experience who are going to jump on them and solve our famine. this is not something we should be doing. So I looked into problems that from my perspective was were harder to solve that not going to be immediately solved by by some very very smart people and scalability was one of them and scalability did not feel like an acute problem back then because the prices the the fees for transactions were very low. But then we had the cryptoius crisis and it showed very vividly to everyone that you know if we cannot bring one simple game on on chain how we're going to bring the entire world economy. So if the thesis of Ethereum really works if we're building this finance 2.0 and all things that touch value will come on chain eventually we will need much much much higher scale. And so I spent uh I started consulting. I had to switch full-time to crypto. Uh and I went to different conferences. I tried to read as much as I can being terminally on Twitter. Uh learning everything I could about Ethereum, Bitcoin, scaling um all the other problems we have. And um there were a couple of solutions to scaling problem uh that felt like they're not going anywhere. They they felt too clumsy. And then I learned about their knowledge growth and about this um aspect of compression of computation. Uh and it felt like magic. It felt like really really uh exciting and uh almost too good to be true and it was too good to be true at the time because the cryptography was not quite uh quite there. And um I thought like I I just have to dive uh very deep uh into this and and find people who are um can understand these complex things uh without uh you know any good on ramping materials. You you just have to had to read cryptography papers back then and try to implement code back based on them. There was no popular tutorials, no books, no you know was a completely uh uh wild space the full frontier and so this is how we started building and it took us many years indeed to to make to to take those technologies to become mature and it was an effort of the entire space. We contributed a lot from Zikync. We built the very first ZK rollup on Ethereum that actually worked. We built the very first ZK EVM. We we we brought the recursion. We made a number of advances but there were other teams who made incredible contributions and and like really it was a collective effort of the entire space to get to where we are today. And today we just yesterday we announced um um the airbender the proof system our our latest uh and greatest proof system which is the fastest prover in the world entering the leaderboard of the ETH proofs being almost two times faster than the than the next uh prover on the list proving full Ethereum blocks on the single with Ethereum's data structure with everything like complete Ethereum blocks not modified not not optimized for proving all in all in 50 seconds on a single GPU. So like you can prove now Ethereum blocks on on your local machine on the local gaming computer at home. Uh um which is which is absolutely incredible. So um it was a long turn. &gt;&gt; Yeah. So I think when somebody's hearing this and they might not be like a a tech wonk when you say like ZK solutions sounded too good to be true, it's because ZK offers this ability to increase scalability at an exponential rate. And there's also privacy preserving features that can be used within the technology. And I myself have been in working in the crypto space. Um, I bought my first Bitcoin summer of 2017 and then by January 2018 I left a whole previous career working for the government and ended up in the blockchain space. Um, and all I can remember from basically day one there was this kind of like lingering um, murmurss of ZK ZK tech. ZK is going to solve everything. But we didn't really see anything until Vitalic started talking publicly about ZK late 2020. But then we still didn't even see test nets coming out until late 23 and 2024 was really the year of like ZK powered test nets. So I guess the question I want to ask is why was ZK so hard to find why did it take so long and why was it so difficult to finally start seeing tangible technology that blockchain users could use after we were talking about it for for so many years. What was the earliest computer that you remember? Uh jeez, I don't even remember the model. It was I I played like Space Invaders with and the screen was black and orange. &gt;&gt; Black and orange. So it was uh Did you run DOSs or what operating system? &gt;&gt; Yeah, DOSs. And we were using floppy discs. &gt;&gt; Floppy disc and you would have to type the name of the program and execute and console and you like everything was taxed and everything was really really small, slow and like maybe 8 bit music whatever, right? Uh and now fast forward to the uh u iPhone that you hold in your hand and what you all things you can do there with um streaming and AI and virtual reality and like just my like you know translation of of real voice. Um this is the um kind of the orders of magnitude of improvement in computation uh difference that that you can tangibly feel like when when you go from uh uh I don't know like 1 megaby of RAM to uh terabytes of RAM. This is what you get and this is kind of on a similar order of magnitude improvement that we got in ZK proving performance from the first uh like from from the time when when we were starting to where we are today. So I I I it's several orders of magnitude and and on each order of magnitude you get um to a different level of experience and when they compound you get something completely unrecognizable. So back then we were only able to prove like some very very basic statements and it took us hours to do this. Uh now we can prove all of Ethereum with the entire complexity uh of what's happening there uh on a single GPU. Like back back then it would take like I don't know like we would we would not even be able to do this at all. It would be prohibitively expensive. We would not have enough GPUs in all of the worlds to prove Ethereum blocks at this capacity at at at this speed. But then uh the reason it felt too good to be true is as you said it's this exponential ability to verify exponential growth on what we can verify how we can prove it or prove and then verify and to give it to to put it under a different angle. We can prove everything that is happening in the world like all of the transactions of value of like 10 billion people all of the economics all of the payments all of the trading everything and then we can recursively start combining this proofs together. So here's this like Visa is doing the Visa things like 2,000 TPS. We start proving those blocks. NASDAQ is doing trading. We start proving those blocks. all of the crypto uh each individually we start proving those blocks and we start combining them together and then combining the proofs of proofs and proofs of proofs until we get a single proof which we can put on let's say on Ethereum and then we produce a proof of Ethereum itself and we have a single proof of all the proofs in the world which we then put on a mobile phone and you can verify it in one second and it your phone does not care if it's millions or billions or trillions of transactions This is the magic, the singularity that you can take all of that and compress into a single point which is really easy to verify for everyone. So we can truly synchronize the entire world on this thing with math having the full mathematical guarantees of trust between every single individual in the world all aligned all synchronized by a single settlement layer. This is the fascinating part of of this game. &gt;&gt; So I'd like to dig into this a little bit more then. In previous interviews, you've mentioned that Ethereum has proven itself to be the settlement layer of the world. Going do you think that moving forward we should be entering a world where new chains shouldn't be launching as L1's? They should be building as L2s and leveraging Ethereum. Why is Ethereum the chain that is one? I mean, um, even when we went back to the example you gave, you asked me what my first memory of of my first computer was, there's no way in hell I would use that computer at all today. So, as we use this kind of example of technology, why would we still be using Ethereum in 20 years? Uh, well, Ethereum is a network that's going to be evolving. So, it's just like, are you still using the internet? It's still the same internet as as was there in the from the 1990s, but it's also not not exactly the same internet. You're like all of the nodes on this network have been replaced. All of the links of this network have been replaced with something upgraded, right? So like you you you have the continuity but the technology continues evolving. And uh similarly here the the network effects is what matters. Ethereum is today the financial internet period. Yes, you will have other chains and they will have their moments of glory and and their role in in in some parts of the world and we'll see a lot of experimentation and I think that a lot of experimentation we see today with their ones will inevitably come back and they will quickly realize that the cost they have to pay for their security is vastly um greater than what you would pay for a much better security if you were in Ethereum L2. The uh uh the thing with crypto is the markets have are quite irrational and we see like a lot of deviations and a lot of extremes and then we see the return to mean after a while. So we've seen it with NFTTS, we've seen it with um a lot of other things with ICO uh that that we uh touched on before. Um I think what people see today with L1 is this L1 premium which actually like N1 premium in in terms of token price which actually stems from the fact that you have to pay a lot for security of those tokens. So uh it's not something that's going to be sustainable there. Why would you pay tens or hundreds of millions of dollars every year to your validators? Like what like Imagine that you can build a a business um uh where you pay for the rent $10 versus you pay for the rent $10 million, but you provide the same services. Like you have a cafe, you have the exact same construct. In fact, like the the one the guy who's paying more actually has like worse security. like you your your door is not quite locked. The walls are from wood and the other guy is uh having like an concrete uh perfect uh building super safe and you both offer the same services. Maybe it's like banking or or cafe or whatever restaurant, right? But the one is paying like gazillions for for for the rent. Who of them will stay in business longer? like like paying more for security does not give you any other advantage. It's just a cost. It may give you a short advantage in the in in the short term because the markets are rational. You can pump your token and then uh whatever uh try to sell it, but eventually the market is going to see that it it's not a sustainable structure. &gt;&gt; Interesting. So I guess I when you look at the the rollup landscape in EVM land, um the kind of internal battle has been between the ZK stack and the OP stack. And I think that it was kind of an unfair race that the OP stack got to got to start running a little bit before the ZK stack just because there wasn't as much technical complexity. So, um, forgive me if I'm painting this, um, competition for for for L2s and for roll-ups and the EVM ecosystem in an unfair manner, but the way I I look at it from an outsers's perspective who's not building on EVM, um, there's the ZK stack and there's the OP stack. So, is this a real competition right now? And if it does really exist, are we finally getting to a point with the SDKs and the other types of composibility that ZKS Stack offers? Are we getting to a point where ZK is finally catching up to be able to compete uh toe-to-toe with OP Stack? Uh look, ZK stack was not able to offer the same uh functionality up to this year as the OP stack. It had some advantages and they were used by uh so there were there were a set of trade-offs. Some people would take the uh trade-offs and build on ZK stack. The others would take the trade-offs and build on the OP stack. And it turned out that for the cryptonative crowd, the tradeoffs of optimistic rollup back then overweighted and more chains launched on the pista. Now the uh um uh this has completely changed this year. This is this has dramatically changed with the announcement with uh the introduction of Atlas upgrade of ZK sync uh of the ZK stack that uh was introduced I think four weeks ago where ZK stack is now uh vastly more performant to the best of my knowledge that any chain running OP stack we have measured over north of 15,000 TPS In terms of stable coin transfers, of course, it depends on what kind of transaction you do, but uh the stable coin transfers is is the benchmark I think is which is more more most relevant in today's world. So 15,000 stable coin transfers per second um at the cost of 0.001 per transaction. So like less than 100 hundreds of a cent per transaction in proving costs and 1 second zk finality. So we can now generate the proof for the block of the ZK stack in 1 second and settle this on the on the shared settlement layer uh on on this uh on the ZK gateway um protocol that we have which would allow us to connect all of these chains together with uh 1 second 2C latency on inter uh this is something that OP chains today cannot do. So once this interrupt goes live, all of the ZK chains are going to be united into a real single network whereas the OP stack chains will remain isolated. So this is going to be a huge turning moment for for you to decide like do what do you do? Do you want to stay isolated or or do you need do you want to connect and and take advantage of this uh ever growing economy? Because with op uh um the problem of of the op stack, if you're isolated, your connection to layer 1 is also very slow. For you to withdraw funds to layer 1 takes canonically 7 days. So you can of course use um third party bridges and liquidity providers. That means you have to integrate them. You have to pay them to keep large amount of capital on your chain. so that this uh the this interoperability can actually work. Uh this is costly, this is expensive, it it it's it's a very high barrier entry for new participants. If you want to launch a new chain, you have to pay today millions in integration costs to just get the basics done. This is not sustainable. This is not going to take you to the world where every application can become its own chain. Uh but you can do that with the ZK stack. So once this happens, once the the interop goes live and it probably will go live in Q1 next year, uh it's going to be a completely different world with regard to to how the these technologies are uh are positioned um for the cryptonative audience. But again like our focus for the for the last year have been on enterprises and institutions because we see that as the 10x 100x,000x larger market to expand crypto to actually grow the pie instead of competing for the same zero sum small circle of uh of a few builders who are building just purely cryptonative uh applications. It's a lot more interesting what we can achieve as an industry once we bring the integration of the true real world economy and this is going to happen through integration of enterprises, institutions, real world businesses and this is what what uh uh this is why we have you know the kind of the grade is almost secondary news to the uh progress we made with previdiums with focus on privacy. Very cool. Um, so the the OP stack has the super chain. What's kind of like the the marketable uh ecosystem of these ZK enabled um ZK stacks? What's what's the name you guys are going with? &gt;&gt; We're calling the elastic network because it can grow. You can stretch it and it it can grow without limits. You can continue stretching and expanding. uh it's very elastic in in in terms of the uh um upside potential and uh in terms of be able to serve the growing demand. You know, perfectly elastic um supply is the supply in economy economics that can follow demand without limits. So, I'm going to ask you to maybe give a little bit of a spicy take here real quick. Um, so we saw a lot of like darling ICO chains from the 171 18 era. We saw some of them migrate to L2s to um maybe scratch the surface of market relevance again. Um, like Lisk was an L1 in 2018 and is now an L2 in the EVM ecosystem. If you could take a wild guess, which OP stack do you think will switch over to the ZK stack in the coming years? &gt;&gt; Uh, look, I think that uh in a few years there will be no optimistic roll-ups left at all. Like everything is going to be ZK. They will try to upgrade uh OP. I I think it's inevitable that like they they have to upgrade uh and become ZK roll-ups or everything is going to be irrelevant. And I think it's going to be easier to convert to the Ziki stack than to upgrade in place. So for for some cases you can operate in place but you will have to maintain all the legacy of the existing stack that was originally designed for the uh optimistic for fraud proof systems um which will come at a cost like I I don't think that uh um any of the uh that you will see the 1 second proving of the op stacks with external exogenous uh proof systems anytime soon because you have to co-develop this technologies together. It's like trying to take a propeller plane and upgrade it uh to the uh uh to become a jet plane. Your wing geometry is not suited for this. Your other systems are not ready for this high speed. It like it's easier to just change the plane into the the plane fuselage entirely and just switch completely um than try to do this this upgrades in place. Now we'll we'll see like they they they they must try they have to do this because otherwise they're not going to be relevant very very soon. So which of the chains will upgrade? Uh uh I I don't want to give specific names but this is uh a trend that is irreversible at this point. &gt;&gt; That's fair. Um, okay. So, before we kind of like dig into the institutional side demand and who you're collaborating with with Providium, um, I'm just curious to hear what are the kind what's like the the relationship with teams that want to build a DAP or a product or anything within the ZK sync ecosystem on chain. How do how are projects coming into the ecosystem to become a part of the elastic network? Are they reaching out to matter labs? Are you guys going out and reaching out to teams and DAPs? Are you finding people are just building in the ecosystem and then you just kind of like rub elbows when they need tech support? What does the relationship look like for going to onboard new DAPs into the elastic network? Right now, &gt;&gt; uh we have a broad community. We have uh many teams that support each other that are uh helping each other in various ways. Malabs is one of the participants of the this economy. Our focus is on uh uh on institutions primarily. We reach out and talk to them a lot. But we uh sometimes we get cryptonative projects referred to us and we also are helping them. We have a uh strong partner success team that's only job is to make sure that the um teams and projects that are building on Ziky sync that we work with are successful and we help them on the technical front. We help them on the business front. We connect them to investors. We connect them to to other partners who uh infrastructure providers or partners within the ecosystem who can help. Uh uh we listen to them a lot. Our road map is uh the road map of metalabs that who who is the core contributor to the zk stack is uh primarily driven by the partners need. We're not coming and saying like oh we're thinking this amazing feature is is is is going to uh it's going to make uh the thing shiny and and exciting. No, we like we prioritize based on what people need, what will help them succeed and and move faster. And this uh of course um includes to a large part the existing projects that are um that are building on the elastic network with um uh lodging you like from with different uh verticals there from gaming projects such as Exola which is huge and really really exciting what they're going to bring once they launch uh and integrate to the existing network of over 1 billion users that are using gaming uh um payments on on ramps from like it's always they strive for payments. They're really well known in the gaming world to the recently integrated sand chain that launched on on Zik Sync which is one of the largest uh creator communities in the world and and really large in Asia um to abstract chain is also really well known uh in in the entire crypto world to lens to um uh then all all the institutional partners. We just recently announced the uh launch of the ADI chain from Abu Dhabi which is a joint project by IHC uh the largest public traded company I think in uh in Saudi in sorry in uh United Arab Emirates. It's kind of the black rock of Middle East and the first Abu Dhabi bank, the largest bank in the country who are on board to um launch the first regulated dearham stable coins and bring the entire nation on chain and and connect all the regional countries in and this huge network uh from Africa to Asia to to everything in the Middle East. Um and of course then the institutional chains like the momento blockchain which is the partnership with the Deutsche Bank uh and many others like I mean it can go on for for a long time. &gt;&gt; Totally. Um and also for listeners uh Sanchain will be the episode you listen to before this episode with Sebastian. So uh very cool to kind of see the the relationship between the two entities. Um before we dig into kind of like institutional demand, um I'm just curious from somebody who's been building in blockchain for seven plus years now. Um what's your kind of like road mapping strategy? It as we've seen, you can say that you want to see this grand technology that should take a year or two to develop, but it takes five plus years. So, how do you and your teams go about collaborating and talking with your partners and deciding on what a road map should be? And what do you think is kind of like the sweet spot for for the length of time that a road map should entail? &gt;&gt; Well, at Malabs, we have many teams. So, we develop the road map in parallel. What we do is we talk to to partners. We talk to the prospective partners. We uh we have a product team and we take all of this requirements and and then we prioritize them and see like okay with the existing resources we can have like seven different tracks. What are these tracks you're going to work on? Um uh we do our best just moving every week and and and like removing bottlenecks uh and trying to get as fast as possible. And sometimes you can predict things, sometimes you cannot. And sometimes you're surprised by how good the results are uh beyond your expectations. So it's it's a normal process just as a heavily engineering um based organization. Uh we have uh a very strong engineering culture. We have a very high bar uh of talent and uh we strive to to keep this bar high and and only keep increasing it. uh and um uh we trust the the the teams with autonomy and with freedom within the organization to move fast and do things that are necessary. &gt;&gt; Awesome. Um on the road map for 2025, if we look back at uh Matter Labs' road map for ZKYNC, uh the sequencer layer was kind of one of the the key steps on the road map and the goal. There are three different stages in EVM land. There's stage zero. Stage one and stage two. Stage zero being the least decentralized, stage two being the most. And the goal for ZKYNC this year was to become a stage one rollup. So I want to talk a little bit about sequencer layers. What's the current path for for becoming a stage one rollup? Is 2025 still the key year that ZKSync is eyeing to become a stage one rollup? And then I also just want to like throw in a curveball and ask how will native rollups impact um the current rollup landscape. &gt;&gt; Um sure. So let's talk about the maturity stages of rollups which is the concept Vitalik introduced and then was embraced by L2B uh as a major um um kind of arbiter of uh of the stages and and auditor in the space. um they reflect the maturity of the proving system and they like they they have nothing to do with the sequencer. They they apply to the um uh security properties of your chain or maybe even better said trust assumptions of your chain. Who do you have to trust for what for to keeping your your for keeping your fund secure? Um I think that the maturity framework is um a little inaccurate like the different this is the case where different um requirements were applied to optimistic and and zk rollups. So like they're not quite the same. Like a difference between stage zero and stage one optimistic rollup is much greater than the stage zero and stage one zk roll up. So I like the stage one zk rollup is way better than the stage zero uh optimistic rollup because you have the security from ethereum already um incorporated by the virtue of using zk proofs in the first place. Whereas for for an optimistic rollup if you don't get to stage one you basically don't have any security. It's trust me bro proof of authority which is what what they were for for a long period of time. So um then for us to get from stage zero to stage one does not really increase like trustlessness a lot if you have a decentralized set of validators or sorry if you have a decentralized governance for upgradability and you have a sufficiently high uh threshold security console. So your trust assumptions between for stage uh stage one rollups essentially reside with the security console. That's your bottleneck of of of trust assumptions. And this is not going to change by by going from stage zero to stage one. So we we still be doing this but I think that more important is to get to stage two where you have where you basically removing the trust assumptions in security council in any like finite group of participants and you're fully relying on Ethereum as um um as a source of all sorts of security. So this is a lot harder because you need probably to some degree to oify your protocol like as long as the protocol keeps evolving. You don't want to deploy something immutable that is as complex as a rollup and just say okay we we we think we're done like everything is here is fine. um nothing is going to change. Uh and we're not like if something is going to change, we're not going to introduce any new box uh with the next upgrade. I think we're not quite at that stage. So I it will take a while for all of the uh projects to reach stage two. Um so today we are um like on track. So, it's a project that that we're doing, but there are a couple of other things that I know have higher priority because they are driven by demands of the customers. So, I cannot tell you exactly when stage one is going to be reached because of that. Um, but with uh on the sequencer side, what's important is the sequencer decentralization. And this is again something that is very important for us to make sure that you don't have censorship in real time by by a single sequencer. And this is something that is also coming. And again to it's hard to say exactly when it's coming because this has not been something that was in demand from any of the um or like any large number of uh of projects that are building today. every everyone was more um or had more pressure to implement higher performance, lower latency, lower block times, solve some other technical issues before that becomes a a major priority. Um so it will definitely be done I think by uh uh in in in the relatively short term. It's not going to take years, but I can't give you the exact timeline. &gt;&gt; Got it. So, when we look at maybe like uh an OP chain that launched with a lot of success, um maybe they had deep ties to a large organization that's very centralized and custodial. Are what how do we compete against that sort of strategy? Um, it's really easy to just funnel people onto a chain if they don't necessarily care about decentralization or how decentralized a sequencer network is because the chain is very fast and they can launch all sorts of stuff on it and and use it really quickly. What does competition look like for using like a ZK chain um that doesn't necessarily have deep ties to a single large scale centralized entity? uh I don't think you have to compete necessarily in this regard like you don't compete with your users you follow what your users want and you build products that uniquely provide value. So what we're looking at from from the perspective of our product road map is what are the demands of the users and what are the niches where we can build and solve these demands better than than anything else that that exists today where where where do we create more value? So if users don't care about security, it like they should go to places where they're where they served best. Maybe they would just want to go to centralized exchanges and they're willing to trust them and it's perfectly fine. It's their needs that that where where they will be served where the the customers that we see who do care a lot about security, real security and and real uh lowering of trust assumptions between the counterparties are the financial institutions, enterprises, real world businesses. That is where our focus is today because we bring more value to them. They're not going to embrace optimistic roll-ups uh as easily. Uh they they cannot connect to each other. using optimistic roll-ups. In fact, they would not use optimistic like most of the the teams were or or projects large enterprises we're talking to would not even consider an optimistic rollup. Our the alternative we're dealing with is Hyperledger Bezu, not a Pstack because they don't care. They they can run it themselves. They have strict requirements on privacy, on compliance, and on the way they operate their infrastructure. They want to host that the services on prem. They want full control. They want the full ability to um to decide on permissioning of those systems, who can go in, who can do what. This is not a cipher punk utopia, but this is the reality that they are dealing with in their businesses. Now what we allow them to do is to grow up from from this infancy stage where if you use a fully private chain inhouse, you're not very far off from a database. It's like a slightly better version of a database where you can use some smart contracts to reflect some of the of your internal accounting, but that's it. When you upgrade from an a fully private chain to a ZK previdium, a ZK based private chain on Ethereum, all of a sudden you get access to the entire new digital economy on chain starting with Ethereum layer 1, having access to ETH and all the other digital assets of Ethereum, but then also connecting to other private chains and be able to exchange value directly peer-to-peer the privacy preserving way between the uh uh let's say two banks that are uh residing in different jurisdictions where each of the banks will keep the data centers in under their control in their jurisdiction. they can still talk to each other directly with using the ZK native uh interoperability protocol without having to introduce third-party assumptions without having to enter any consortium arrangements that have been tried for the last couple of years with between these financial institutions and they they have repeatedly failed because it's really hard like banks don't trust each other contrary to maybe some popular beliefs they don't trust each other they definitely don't trust banks from other jurisdictions because they know that they have to follow very different compliance rules. So it's it's not something that's going to work. Um they want this direct disintermediated uh mathematically cryptographically backed ability to to create trust. &gt;&gt; I I intuitively understand the value proposition that something like Pvidium brings, but I I was trying to have this conversation recently with someone who's a just a blockchain skeptic in general. And I couldn't give like a realworld example of how uh two banking entities would want to have their information in a database but also be able to intermingle what they chose to share with one another. I couldn't give like a real world example of what this could be. So in your conversations and without even going into names or specific details, what has been like an example of a way in which a bank wants to have a somewhat more distributed internal ledger that can communicate with another internal ledger at another bank. What would be like the assets that they want to be able to prove that they have but not show how much of those assets they have? What would be like a tangible example? Very simple. It would be the bank's own assets that they tokenize. So users of the bank, the customers of the bank put money into the bank account. The bank tokenizes this deposit giving them the receipts. the basically the stable coins, the private stable coin of this bank that the customers can then take and send to other um customers of maybe a different bank or maybe to a different subsidiary of a of if they are a multinational corporation like you you have a tokenized deposit from a bank in Paris and you want to send it to your subsidiary in Tokyo uh and uh you cannot do payments today that would be instant and would work 24/7. You cannot send uh settle a payment on a Saturday afternoon. Uh which creates a lot of friction and a lot of cost for this um cross uh border transacting entities where they have to pay their customers, their their suppliers or or their partners. And the beauty of this uh example is it's actually driven by the customers of the bank and not by the bank or the banks themselves. And this creates a very strong power dynamics. So the banks are not necessarily in um like in willing to embrace blockchains on their own. It's or or the other institutions. They're happy with the current status quo. They're happy with how finance 1.0 works. They are happy with t plus 2 t plus 5 days settlement because that's the time where they're going to earn the interest on all the funds residing at rest. they're making huge profits out of it. It's the customers who are unhappy and the customers are creating the pressure on the banks and financial institutions of of other sorts. And so what the institutions are facing is essentially an adopt or die moment because the ones who cannot adopt and embrace these new technologies will simply be left out. If your business model still requires T plus2 T plus 5 days of settlement, you won't be in the business any longer. Not after the genius act that it's legalized stable coins. It's over now. Everything everyone is going to embrace stable coins and it's going to be a lot of different types of stable coins. There will be this big centralized uh or centrally issued stable coins of uh USDT and USDC. But there will be also small a lot of small stable coins issued by the banks directly. And there will be some services of clearing where that allow the banks to to exchange the or like the customers of uh of of different uh banks to to exchange stable coins for something that they can redeem with their own bank. But all of that is going to happen in in seconds rather than days. And it's it's all going to be like globally interconnected uh network of value that begins with stable coins but then it expands to everything else to all the RWAs um to all types of tokenized assets. So today, Ziki sync is uh uh the second largest RWA economy uh on in crypto, second only to to Ethereum chain uh which you can um check on on RWXY Z, but today it's largely private credit. This is the uh the the asset that was the easiest to tokenize and expand. We'll see a lot more types of assets coming into this race. We'll see tokenized stocks. we'll see tokenized uh um um forms of uh various financial derivatives and so on and so on. So it's going to be an ever expanding uh snowball. Awesome. So as we wrap up and and zoom out, um the kind of like final big picture question I want to ask and you definitely just touched on this is how are you guys skating to the puck of stable coins? How are you going to where stable coins are going? How are you preparing uh ZK sync providium today to be able to meet the stable coin demand starting in 2026 and beyond after Genius Act is enabled? Uh it's what we're doing with the infrastructure which which is building this network of connectivity. Stable coins are as valuable as the network of participants who can accept them. This is true for for any network for with any network effects. You have the metall uh crypto is already very strong in network effects today. We're going to expand it multiffold 1000,000 xfold bringing more institutions around the world onchain meeting when them where they are with their requirements on privacy uh compliance and connectivity while preserving privacy and compliance which was uh next to impossible before preidiums. I love it. Um, so if anybody's listening to this right now, whether you're a big fat cat banker who's hiding behind an anon account on crypto Twitter or you're a developer who's interested in building in in on the ZK stack, what's the best way for people to reach out to you and your team, Alex? &gt;&gt; Um, you can follow us on ax.com under zk and myself personally under gluk64. And uh, you check out our new website zksc.io. Uh there is a button to connect and our team will be happy to talk to you and walk you through everything. &gt;&gt; Awesome. Alex, thank you so much for taking the time to chat to with us today. Um, it was a phenomenal dig into your background, into ZK in general, and it's amazing to see where the technology has taken us to at this point and how we're kind of at this like perfect mesh of institutional adoption and the the the feasibility and usability of of ZK technology. Um, it's a really exciting time and I will continue to enjoy following uh ZKSync's uh continued growth and onboarding of this new asset class into bringing everybody on chain. So, yeah, thank you so much for your time today. It was really awesome. &gt;&gt; Thank you, Dylan. It was my pleasure. &gt;&gt; Cheers. Thank you so much for tuning in to the Smart Economy podcast. To stay in the loop with all of our latest episodes and insights, head over to www.smarteconomyodcast.com. smarteconomyodcast.com and don't forget to subscribe to our YouTube channel for all of our video content. If you enjoyed today's discussion, please consider showing your support by liking, commenting, and reviewing this episode on your favorite podcasting platform. Your feedback helps us reach more listeners and bring you even better content. We'd also love to hear from you. So, please drop a comment on Spotify or YouTube to share what topics you'd like us to cover or who you'd like to see as our next guest. And if you or someone you might know would make for a great guest, please reach out. We're always on the hunt for fresh voices and new perspectives. And for our NEO token holders out there, please consider voting for NEON News Today as your council representative. We've proudly been serving the NEO ecosystem since 2017 and we'll continue to do so by putting portions of our council rewards directly back into ecosystem growth initiatives. So once again, thank you so much for listening and we cannot wait to catch up with you next time.