A lot of people come into the space to make some quick cash and leave. Um, but I think real transformative change takes decades. Um, and you just have to stick through it. Like that's that's when you will see the change. Like it won't happen overnight. Um, it won't happen because your token went up 10x. It will only happen when an actual real user finds value in your work and continues to stay with you for years and years. Hey everyone, welcome to the Smart Economy podcast where we ask your favorite builders the questions you wish you could ask yourself. This is a production of neonnewstoay.com and I'm your host Dylan Grabowski. In today's episode, we're joined by Mesa Uden, the head of BV at Injective and the co-founder and general partner at Vessel Capital. In this conversation, we talked about a variety of topics including the importance of creativity in blockchain builders, the nuances of VC in crypto, how Injective has reached its product market fit, building on the Cosmos SDK and EVM tech stacks, Injectives Wall Street collaborations, and so much more. Just a reminder, nothing said in this podcast is a solicitation to buy or sell any tokens and that the guest or host might hold tokens discussed in any given episode. You can see a disclaimer at neonnew.com. And if you enjoyed this episode, please rate and review it on your favorite podcasting platform and share it with your friends and family. Every rating, review, like, and comment helps us reach more people and bring you more interesting guests. With all that said, I really enjoyed this conversation with Mesa and I hope you enjoy it too. Hey everyone, welcome to the Smart Economy podcast. Today we're joined by Mesa Uden, the head of BD at Injective, a decentralized interoperable blockchain optimized for finance focused applications. And Mesa is also the co-founder and GP at Vessel Capital, a venture fund focusing on web 3 and crypto. Super psyched to have this conversation today, Miraa, how you doing? &gt;&gt; Doing well. It's great to connect. Awesome. Um, I think the most important question before we we dive into anything is what is the most applicable anime show or series that a crypto enthusiast should be watching right now? &gt;&gt; Oh, this is such an amazing question. A crypto enthusiast. Um, okay. So, my favorite show of all time is one called Code Guos. I think that one is just interesting because it has some futuristic tech, but it also has crafty strategy. And I think in crypto, you need to have strategy to make things work. Um, you'll love it. If you like Death Note type of vibes, you'll like it. If you like something just um more for fun and you want to chill out after a long day, uh, I think Sakamoto Days is amazing because it's just a hilarious show to just kick back with. So, those are my two picks for one like super serious and not very funny at all and one like just hilarious and more like One Punch Man, I guess. &gt;&gt; Awesome. The show I keep going back to year after year, Samurai Shampoo. &gt;&gt; Oh, that one's amazing. That That's just great. &gt;&gt; Yeah. Okay, so you're a cowboy Bebop kind of anime watcher. &gt;&gt; Absolutely. I love cowboy BBop. &gt;&gt; Very nice. Very nice. &gt;&gt; Cool. I just had to get that out of the way. That was it was super fun kind of like digging into your background and it's it's funny to see like what people get psyched on and um that's a whole universe in and it of itself that people can get completely lost in. &gt;&gt; I'm like avidly a fan of anime. I think like I draw the line when people take it too far. Like I'm not going to dress up as the characters and walk around on the street and cosplay all day, but I will watch because I think it's entertaining and the story lines are great. So yeah. What do you think is the role of having a creative outlet in viewing like an art or something that's created by somebody else in our industry? I believe that people should read um fiction in in order to kind of like help grow their mind and to think about what's possible. And so I'm a really big fan of sci-fi and I think that there's a lot of themes in sci-fi that allow the the reader to kind of like think creatively and out of the box and in consuming that sort of content and information. We can also apply some kind of like out ofthe-box futuristic thinking to this industry and crypto and blockchain is like the place where we can make futuristic innovative out of the box ideas come to reality. So, do you think that having something like sci-fi or anime is super important for us as builders in the space? &gt;&gt; I think it's so important because it gives you a lens into what the future could look like. And I think not to get too deep into this, but um that's what we're all trying to build in crypto, right? The the future reality. And I've personally been inspired by a lot of this. It could be books. I think books are very underrated. People just have lost the art of reading in my opinion. Um, I blame a lot of that on streaming and Netflix and all these shows because people just don't read. Back in the day, I used to read all the time, but these days I I will also admit like, yes, uh, I read less than I used to. And maybe I I'll watch shows like Severance or Westworld or all these sci-fi shows because they're just so well made and those types of shows just didn't have the budget or weren't created before. Um, but I think that's such an interesting viewpoint where we're constantly at the frontier of this technology where no one really knows what they're building or what the consequences could be. But by being able to view this content or or have an insight into especially dystopian realities and I think a lot of that comes from books, a lot of that comes in shows or movies. Um it might seem mainstream sometimes like Bladeunner is obviously mainstream but it has interesting thoughtprovoking elements right um on on what money can look like in the future on what technology can look like how we interact with technology um and especially after the advent of uh Chad GBT and like how it's taken over the world I think a lot about this it's like now people like Sam Alman and Peter Taylor are talking about how they want humanoid workers right humanoid robot workers I'm like, "Okay, I've seen like a hundred movies about this. I'm not sure if I love it, but that's where the world is heading." And if um I think you were mentioning earlier that you've lived in the Bay Area. Right now, a lot of the Ubers there, a lot of the Whimos are just driven by AI as well. And that's just the beginning in my opinion. At a certain point, your barista is also going to be AI. So, how do you think about that reality where we're um I don't want to use out of a job because I think that's a misnomer sometimes, but yes, a lot of people will be out of the out of a job and have to maybe relearn certain skills. Um, which I think is so so important before this arrives. And I think that's what a lot of these shows kind uh try to tell us. Like one of my favorite movies of all time is Wall-E where if you remember in Wall-E there's a bunch of these fat people in just riding around because they don't have to do anything. The robots do everything for them. I don't want to be in that state in like 20 years where all of us are just lazy and it's like hey everything is so simple we don't have to try. Um, I think that's the biggest thing. And I think the creative outlets are important because even if our bodies over time get less sharp because we're just more reliant on tech, maybe there are ways to keep our mind sharp through these creative outlets, through the work we do in crypto. Um, that's what gets me excited every day, I would say. &gt;&gt; Yeah, I think there's reason for concern with AI taking our jobs. Um, but it's also going to open up a new avenue for creativity in a way that this can be kind of like the new employment focus. Like there's a class of of a swath of people who are not going to have like the opportunity to get that low-wage job like that a barista might have or that like somebody flipping a hamburger might have. But there's going to be new paradigms for that person to express their creativity. There's 10 different forms of of intelligence. There's like physical intelligence, mathematical intelligence, emotional intelligence, so on and so on. And we're entering a world where it's going to be a bit of a shock where AI and and humanoid robots kind of like take over simplistic sort of job processes. But as we kind of get used to this, we're also going to be able to empower and enable people to really explore avenues of creativity. And I'm hopeful that though this future could be dystopian, that there is an opportunity for a wide swath of people to be able to create in a new way that they weren't previously allowed to do because they were forced to go to this day job that's somewhat mindless and numb. &gt;&gt; 100%. I agree entirely. Um, this might be like the wildest one of the wildest stakes I have, but I'm most interested in knowing when does technology get to a point where things like school are not needed. Like we spend so much time learning useless things in school. What if there was like a way to just fire that intelligence like hey the Pythagorean theorem etc. I don't need to learn this for a month in math class. I just learn it. That way you effectively save like 15 years of your life that you spend in school. And that's like so valuable if you could just do other things for that time. So that's what I'm most interested about with with the rise of tech. I think a lot of people are very reactionary or hate it. And yeah, there's reasons you might not be super psyched about it, but I think you will just have so much more freedom to explore new interests and like open up new paradigms. Like you said, um the exact same thing happened. It's kind of funny that like in history class we learn about this during the industrial revolution. There are these people called Witites who hated the industrial revolution and protested against machines etc. But we're all still here. Those people who used to do manual labor are now doing new interesting things maybe operating the machines etc. So people will still have jobs. They'll just look very different and they'll apply their intelligence in different ways. That's my take. &gt;&gt; Awesome. So let's uh let's zoom back to crypto and blockchain a little bit. Um, we're both from an era where the white paper reigned supreme and we were putting use this this reading skill that we're starting to see slowly deteriorate in our own day-to-day activities as well as like more broadly. So maybe we can take a step back into time and and recount your genesis story with with Bitcoin or with Ethereum like when was the first time you encountered Bitcoin or crypto or Ethereum and and did it click right away or did you have an aha moment later? &gt;&gt; Yeah, this is a very good question. So, um, for me, I first heard about it, believe it or not, in 2013. Um, I was in high school. I was like a high school junior and a few of my friends were mining it. Um, and don't worry, we didn't make much money at all. Like, I think we sold it for like a couple hundred bucks. Like, it wasn't anything interesting. Um, that was my first introduction. I didn't really understand what was going on. And I wouldn't say I wouldn't take credit and say like, "Hey, I joined crypto back in 2014." I didn't. I think I just like knew about the industry. I really got into it in 2017 to be quite frank with you. At that time I was doing an internship at a company called Two Sigma. It's a pretty big hedge fund here in New York. Um, and if you remember during summer of 2017, crypto was all the craze. I think Ethereum had just went from like $7 to like over $300 in the span of a few months. Um, and we were allowed to pick. So the entrance got to pick like which industry they want to focus on. And the two that were underserved at that time hilariously was AI and crypto. Um, and I put up my hand and said, "Hey, I don't necessarily care about AI that much, but I I'm interested in this crypto thing. I've heard about it before." So, I went all in, started to talk to a lot of different entrepreneurs. Um, we actually ended up backing a couple protocols that are pretty huge today, like UMA, uh, that you might know. Um, we were also like LPs in Placeholder, which is Chris Bernk's like, uh, fund. Um, and I took all of my internship money that summer and I poured it all into crypto. Um, betting on random things like Lisk and ARC and ETH. Well, ETH is not random. I still hold most of my ETH to this day. Um, but there was just so many random altcoins and I just got into it and it was exhilarating. Like in December, I would literally place trades at night, wake up in the morning, and my portfolio is up like 2 3x. I'm like, "Oh my god, I'm a genius." And albe it like I'm only putting in like a couple hundred bucks or maybe $1,000 into these things and it's like for a college student that's so much money. It's like oh my god I just made like $1,000 in one night. Um and then it all came crashing down in in January, right? Starting in January after the peak. Um and then I was really at an interesting point in life where everyone is basically like gloating and saying like hey Ma told you so this is all a scam. So, I was at like this interesting point in my life where do I sort of do something traditional or do I like stay with this crypto thing because it seems like it's just dying like every day it just go down and down and down and it was just like kind of sad, right? Um, but I decided like I wanted to stick with it. I don't know why. Call me crazy because I basically just thought about what my life might look like in like 10 years. And it's like okay, I have this like cushy VC job where I could like invest into people and talk to people. Um, or I could take a bunch of risk and dive into crypto and experiment and 10 years from now that cushy VC job will probably still be there, but crypto might not be. So, and I'm young, so let's try it. So, that was kind of my impetus. It wasn't like very rational. Um, it was more like, hey, this seems interesting and I don't want to wake up when I'm 40 and regret not having tried this thing. Um, and then yeah, that was my first intro. I ended up working for a random startup. Um it didn't go well in 2019. They like basically shut their doors. Um then I tried making my own like crypto neo bank. It also didn't go well. Uh because I was um yeah it was during the middle of co like we just couldn't fund raise. It was a great idea in hindsight but it was just like no one believed in crypto in 2019. Like when ETH went below like $100 for a second everyone's like okay this industry is over. Like there's like no coming back from this. um around that time and this is interesting back in 2018 I actually skipped my college graduation like week like the week where people like party blah blah and I came to New York for consensus um which is like a big conference at that time and I met Eric there and Eric ended up co-founding Injective I met him hilariously at a breakfast with Daong Fay like the founder of Neo so how wild is that I literally there were 15 people there and me and Eric were there and we're the only people probably under the age of 35 there. Um, so we ended up like just talking and he became a really good friend and I and I was one of the first people to read sort of this injected white paper where he was trying to build a frontunning resistant Dex. &gt;&gt; I knew what Dexes were at that time. There were some very pitty dexes that were out there in in the wild in 2018. They're horrible. Yeah. Yeah, exactly. There were a couple. Uh, but they were horrible. And this front running idea was interesting because it was way before like it was right around the time unis swap was maybe starting to get some legs like 2018 2019. Um and I just kept in touch. Eric didn't have any money so I couldn't work with him. Uh so he was like going through it and I was trying to do my own stuff. Um and then like middle of 2020 Eric finally raised his seed round and he raised a $3 million seed round from Panta and others. And then I literally ended up messaging him on Facebook and I was like, "Hey dude, congrats. Uh, I might shut down my company, but I want to work with you." And then he's like, "Yeah, let's chat." And then that's that. And I've been here for 5 and a half years. And for once, everything is went well. Obviously, we've had our ups and downs, but over time, like I think Injective was a very, very interesting company for me because I know it's cliche to say, but I learned so much by failing like early on in crypto. Like I knew I knew all the things. like I knew exactly why companies fail. I understood what makes um companies click, what makes people like a certain token or not like a certain token. And most importantly, it made me realize that crypto is more than just about the token. It has to be product first and and um blockchain first. I I I would say because I think the biggest issue I had in 2017 is people will write these fancy white papers that are highly theoretical and never build anything and it was just a bunch of fugazi where people like believed in something but no one ever produced. Um injective was interesting because they were forced to produce like no one wanted to fund it etc. So they were forced to just build out the product with like basically ramen salaries like no one was getting paid anything. I think the first month at Injective, I got paid like 1,500 bucks and I was like whatever, I'll take it. Um, and it was like rough. Like I was like splitting bills with my girlfriend. It wasn't it wasn't great. Like she was paying most of the rent and stuff. But yeah, it ended up working out well over time. Um, and I think a lot of that has to do with me just constantly being in this mindset like, hey, if I don't make this work, I'll have to go back to just working at a bank or a private equity shop. And I really would hate that. Um, so that really was the biggest motivator ever for me. It's like, okay, I'm going to make this work. This is interesting, and there's a good group of people who are not scammers or schemers like many other companies I've seen in the space, and they're in it for the long haul. Um, and I think very few companies can say that. Like this thing came out in 2018. We're still doing the same stuff to this day and continuing to build and progress. That's the most interesting for me because it's like a lot of people come into the space to make some quick cash and leave. Um, but I think real transformative change takes decades. Um, and you just have to stick through it. Like that's that's when you'll see the change. Like it won't happen overnight. Um, it won't happen because your token went up 10x. it will only happen when an actual real user finds value in your work and continues to stay with you for years and years. So that's uh that's the short story of like how I came here. &gt;&gt; I'm I'm really interested to to delve into to the recent like onboarding of of what real long-term players and long-term users look like um with Injective. But as you were telling your story, it resonated so much with me. I was in a previous career but similar path uh both as you. Um I was an urban planner. I left the urban planning pos profession and went full-time into crypto in 2018. And during that bare market I just continuously remember looking into the mirror asking myself what the hell was I doing? All my friends and family were like this is a scam. Everything's going to zero. I think that was the last bare market where we really had to ask ourselves, is this a technology that will be able to survive? Because when ETH was $80, it looked like it was going to keep going down and everything was going to die. But I remember being at ETH Denver 2018 when ETH bottomed that month and looking around and seeing all those builders there and I knew I just knew that this wasn't something that was fly by the seat. it wasn't going to fade out because there were long-term builders there. And my colleague who I ended up working for, um, he basically said, "The factory will always be there. So, like, why not take a risk? Why not leap take a leap of faith and come build in this space and if we fail, then you can always go back and work for the government?" Which was the worst. I don't even need to go into that, but &gt;&gt; Oh, yeah. Talk about slow. Yeah. They'll never get anything done, but yeah. &gt;&gt; Yeah. and and like anyways that's a whole other rabbit hole we won't go down but in your story you you you brought up a handful of times your your collegiate experience you studied at Harvard was there a blockchain atmosphere at university during your tenure there um two years ago I went and traveled the US I spoke at 12 different universities and I met with blockchain clubs all across the US and like they were here they were thriving in 2023 there were students that were building. There were live and active blockchain clubs. That might not necessarily have been the case 5, 6, 7 years ago. What was your experience when you were here? &gt;&gt; It really wasn't. There was like a blockchain society that was effectively like three, four people hanging out uh and just figuring out what to do. It wasn't like a big thing at all. It was so so niche. Like when you go to a college like that and this is something I did like about my college experience personally you have this like feeder where everyone wants to be a consultant at McKenzie and everyone wants to work at Blackstone and Goldman Sachs. There very few people who are willing to risk not getting paid that huge sum of money right out of college to like even go into tech. Some people will go into tech. The engineers all go into like tech. But by tech I mean they want to work at Facebook. They want to work at the big companies. they're not taking a risk to work at a startup, let alone a crypto startup. So, that was the biggest selling point. I think the blockchain club was a bonafide society of that time of like people who um were just day trading these assets or like speculating on assets. No one was necessarily thinking about building a project. Um, which in hindsight I regret because that would have been great to have been building something um during the euphoria of like 2017 2018 because that was an amazing time where the public could really participate without restrictions in your project. Like you could run an ICO and you could have real individuals participating and it's not just like a closed door VC game like it is today unfortunately. um because ICOs are illegal and you can't raise from the public and you have to do KYC and Americans are not allowed to participate and you have all these different hoops and hurdles but that wasn't the case in 2017. In 2017 I could use Binance. They didn't ask me to KYC. I could I could participate in ICOs. Like it was great. Um so yeah, that was my experience. I think things have changed dramatically now when I go to colleges and a lot of the smartest people are coming right out of college and entering crypto because now it's a validated industry. You have people like Jamie Diamond from JP Morgan saying it's real. You have people like Mark Zuckerberg saying it's real. You have people like Stripe saying like they're going to build a blockchain. So that's like ultimate ultimate legitimacy. Like I would think you're pulling a prank on me if you told me that like 5 6 years ago that all these big guys are going to get into crypto or that Tesla is going to buy Bitcoin or that Bitcoin will be over $100,000. Like that sounds so insane in hindsight because when both of us got in, Bitcoin was trading at like 1,500 bucks, $2,000. &gt;&gt; Um it's funny that you mentioned Mark Zuckerberg. I actually think the moment in which crypto and blockchain became real to the US government and to investors in the US was when Facebook wanted to launch Libra. &gt;&gt; Yeah, I agree with that entirely and I still to this day think that the biggest fumble of all time. the fact that Facebook pivoted away from building payments, which I think is how blockchain should be built as an initial use case, especially by these larger companies, and they lost the plot and went into this metaverse thing and it never really took off. Like, yeah, it's it's a like nice little fat, but no, it didn't really take off. So, um I don't know why they let go of that. I think a lot of people have capitalized on Facebook's mistake. I think SU and Apptos are directly a consequence of Facebook's fumble and SUI and Aptos together are what worth like 4050 billion. So that's $450 billion of Eastern market cap that Facebook could have added to its like balance sheet or like market cap in general if not more. So I I think that was a huge huge fumble on their end. &gt;&gt; I I don't disagree, but I can also see from their perspective why they didn't want to carry on the fight. Like there were Senate hearings and there were congressional hearings. &gt;&gt; It was bad. I sometimes wonder whether or not you like Trump or I like Trump or whatever, the administration has been friendly towards crypto. I wonder what the world would look like if the administration in 2020 had been friendly to crypto. If Libra would exist today, if we would have been further ahead as an industry. Um, yeah. Yeah, I can speak directly from the perspective of Injective. Like for the last when I began working at Injective in 2020, we were always living in this constant fear that the government is going to come after us. We have to be super careful. we got to do this, we got to do that. And you just ask yourself like, I wasn't even doing anything bad. Like, we're trying to build like nextgen tech and we want people to use it and you're restricting people from using it, which is the whole point of crypto to accessibility, democratizing finance, etc. How can you democratize finance of like half the world can't access your stuff? Um, it was hilariously ironic to me that I'm in New York building the stuff and technically I'm not allowed to be a user of my product because I happen to live in New York and in the United States. Um, and and that I think has done like tremendous harm to the space. But at at the same time, I think now you see like a huge swing in the other direction where even folks like us are playing a huge role on in BC on Capitol Hill. Uh, we actually just published um our policy recommendations for how DeFi should be regulated with the SEC. We just did that last month, I believe. Um, we're just got our ETF filed. These things would be impossible like a couple months ago, but now you can do it. Um, because the government actually wants to listen to you and hear insights and they understand that they're behind and to catch up. They need the advice and experience of people who've been here a long time. Um, and that's really really amazing to see. That's what makes me really bullish because people in crypto tend to be very anarchist sometimes, right? Like they believe not in the government. But I think for a technology to truly thrive, you need that legal pathway or that framework. Um the internet was sort of the same, right? It was like off in the fringes. It was a bunch of hackers. But once there was a pathway um or or the government starting to recognize that the internet is real, it has value, then that's when you got the trillion dollar companies. You didn't get the multi-dea unicorns or or trillion dollar companies before government accessibility. You got the dot bubble which led to like a lot of losses which is kind of like the ICO bubble and other things in the past. But now that you have this acceptance and hopefully it gets better and better um where crypto is a core part of the tech stack or or the technology focus or policy of the government, you will see tremendously valuable companies and tremendous access points because when everyday users in America can access crypto, it's game over because then you unlock a huge amount of capital that was just sitting on the sidelines to be able to get into crypto in a big way. Um, yeah. So, so that's my sort of like little feel and annoyance with with years past and how things are changing. &gt;&gt; No, 100% agree. The the worst thing that happened to to crypto and blockchain as an industry is it became a bipartisan issue. And during the previous administration, like before before uh number 46, nobody was really like I'm on this side of the aisle or that side of the aisle on crypto Twitter. And during last November, like you saw a clear partisan divide. And there were multiple times over the previous administration's tenure that my company that's based here in the US was seriously examining whether we had to offshore because things like the the custody rule that was going to get snuck into the transportation bill that would have made being a node validator illegal because you can't collect information KYC information on transactions that happened on a block that your node happened to approve. But um you know we also I'm I'm really proud of us as an industry because I too believe that we do need to have regulation. People do need to be protected at the end of the day from scammers. And if you leave it a wild west then scammers will always use any opportunity they can to hurt people. And so in December 23, I flew out to DC with Stand with Crypto and spoke with Colorado legislators on pro crypto legislation and we we actually got to see like democracy work last year. Um regardless of if the party you like or don't like won like crypto one at least. So yeah, I agree. Um but in general like I kind of want to like take this back a little bit because before we were talking about the role that um governance like United States based government governance can provide for the average retail user. You also touched on a subject that I think is super interesting and very um polar on crypto Twitter which is that of VCs. And you even mentioned that today it's a little bit unique in crypto because we come from an era of ICOs where your retail user could get involved but today these deals are made behind closed doors. But you yourself are also a VC. So can you share like how you balance this kind of nuanced insight into the goods and the bads of what a VC is and how do you kind of like operate as a VC yourself knowing that there are certain opportunities you get access to um and maybe there are certain opportunities that more retail should get access to. &gt;&gt; 100%. That's such a nuanced question and I think about this a lot when we began um vessel in general. So we wanted to create something very different because the biggest issue I had with the venture capital environment in crypto is that first of all I believe a lot of them have no idea how crypto works and secondly um they are investing the capital of others without taking on much risk themselves. I'm hyperenalizing there are many VCs I like. I'm just going to leave a small asterisk there. But for the most part, that's the case in in crypto or in VC land in general, right? And I come from a world of VC before I I joined Injective. The way we thought thought about creating Vessel is very different because effectively me and the co-founder of uh Injective, Eric, and one of my friends Anthony who runs Zion got together and we said, "Hey, we're not going to raise any money. We're just going to use our money and we're going to put our uh money where our mouth is." um that automatically that diametrically shifts the focus of what you do as a VC because now you're you're taking on risk yourself. You're committed to helping that company in a big way. And secondly, we didn't want to be just financial investors. We want we were first and foremost operators. like we had learned for years how to grow these companies, how to make them successful. Even small things that VCs would have no idea about like how do you get listed on coin market cap, how do you get listed on an exchange, how do you think about liquidity for a token, how do you build a community on crypto Twitter? Um, all these things were came naturally to us because we had gone through it. You really understand once you go through all of it. Um, so I try to balance it just to just to cut to the chase by being able to provide this information or advice and be being much more hands-on with the companies we back. Uh, because for us it's our own money and it's our own expertise at risk and what we can leverage. Um, and I think that differentiates us highly from what the VC environment is. Um, I don't think we have the power. I think it's more of a governmental policy where I would love every like ICOs to come back in some way. Like there are like scams left and right, but I think um right now people are finding other ways to do ICOs. I think these memecoin launches, most of them are scams and they're effectively doing ICOs, right? Um or people are finding other ways to raise money or capital like DATs, which is also again an insider play or like what insiders can participate in. So I would love for a world to be go back to how things were in 2017 with some more frameworks and risk controls. I agree things got out of hand. Um but that won't happen from me or any other VC. Like we cannot change that system. It needs to be changed by government policy allowing for those types of fundraising mechanisms to come back. Um so that's my little short take on how we think about the space. &gt;&gt; I think it's funny that you mentioned memecoins. I think the memecoin craze that we saw in 2024 was the direct result of an anti-crypto administration because you could just launch anything you want and hey, I'm not building anything. There's there's no strings attached to this. And there was clearly hunger and demand for participating in these cryptoeconomic realms. And because most Americans could only access shitcoins that were launched for LOLs, that was the only way that people could participate. So in effect, the government like enabled us trading these nonsense tokens. &gt;&gt; I agree on a high level. I do. I really do because I think there will always be the necessity of an outlet. If the government doesn't allow us to express um what we want to do with our capital, people will find more and more nefarious ways to to do it. And and innocent people will get more hurt actually because yes, some meme quins did well. and I'm really happy for those people, but 99% of these things do not end well. Just like 99% of ICOs don't end well. Um, so I agreed entirely with the right frameworks, we can get that back while having some risk control and letting people participate. I don't even think it's just like let's blame ICOs for not doing well because just look at businesses in general. How many startups, how many new businesses actually get off the ground? How many restaurants survive after two or three years? &gt;&gt; You are preaching to the choir here. I agree entirely. I think like the statistic is like 90% of startups fail and I think 95 or to 99% of startups fail before reaching like CEC. Um so yeah, no it's it's just a risk and I think um but people are taking risk anyways, right? Like when you look at penny stocks, how are penny stocks better than being able to invest into a crypto asset? Um I would argue a crypto asset has more liquidity is listed on more places than a random penny stock. Um, I don't know. Like it's just weird that you're allowed to take risk and invest at some random shitcoin like biotech company that has never produced anything, but you're not allowed to invest in actual crypto projects that are legit. &gt;&gt; Yeah. All right. So, I I think it's pretty interesting then that you're kind of head of BD for a chain ecosystem. You also manage your own fund. Um, so you kind of get to see this perspective from var wearing various different hats. So what what does that look like then? You know what you want to see, what kind of DAP, what kind of project you want to see building an injective. How does that in how does that kind of like feed in to your perspectives and how you invest into blockchain companies? Yeah, I think that is such a unique advantage we have versus others because we're seeing day-to-day what builders are actually trying to create or where the pain points are. Um, for instance, if someone pitches me or or pitch me, they don't pitch these things to me anymore. But in 2021, a metaverse play, I understood that from a blockchain perspective, there wasn't real inherent demand. Like it was just like very short-lived. But it gives you a unique lens when you actually invest where you realize that hey this will likely not end well and these are highly overvalued like um land on the central land or or sandbox shouldn't be worth millions of dollars and it's very clear to you because you're in the space or in the know and you understand the actual demand and traction but as an out if I was an outside VC maybe I wouldn't understand that. Um I'll give you a fantastic example of this and this is not me calling any project out. A fantastic example of this is Axi Infiniti where you had really major VCs like A16D who are still to this day very well respected. They were backing Axi Infiniti because they thought that hey this is real inherent demand. Look at their usage. Look at their token going up. But I understood and people in the know understood that that is not real. What's actually happening is some people are buying these NFTts and shipping, not to be crashed, but shipping out the actual work to horror Filipinos um who are actually playing the game on your behalf, which is leading to this demand. But it was really easy to see that this would all come crashing down because there's no actual user who actually liked that game or played for the fun of it. They're just trying to make quick cash. Um, so that's something that we were able to avoid strategically. Um, because it was a deck of cards that was waiting to come down, right? Whereas like people like A16Z ended up paying the price and ended up losing a lot of money because those those and this happens to this day everywhere, right? Like when a new project comes out and they suddenly have millions of active wallets, it's like yeah feces think that's real, but we know internally that hey this is a bunch of airdrop farmers from like different countries where they're just trying to get an airdrop and all the users will disappear after this airdrop. But it's kind of sad to say but so many people get tricked by these metrics. So I think that's one lens that that is interesting for us that gives us a unique advantage. The second unique advantage on a bright side is we know where there is latent demand or where people will have demand. For instance, we understood that tokenization would be a huge huge play, but we also understood that the play is to allow for retail access and for secondary market access because if you just KYC gate all these fancy things you're putting on chain, it doesn't actually have demand. So we were able to both internally focus on that and realize that hey we need to allow for secondary market trading of RWAS or tokenized equities. Um and Injective today is one of the highest like the highest chain for RWA volume when it comes to things like tokenized equities, stocks, ETFs because we were able to signal early on that hey we see a lot of builders building in the tokenization space but the real demand will come if you allow for real retail access. Um, so it also gives you unique perspectives in that regard where it kind of informs you of what maybe you should be focusing on or building or where there might be major product market fit. &gt;&gt; Yeah. So as we lean into the kind of product market fit that Injective is clearly finding right now, let's take a quick step back in time. I think one of the based off of like the cursory research I've done into the ecosystem, there's a lot of kind of value that was placed on being selected as a as a project for the Binance incubation program. So what was kind of like the initial vision? How did that seed of initial support of Binance saying, "Hey, there is a there there what what did that kind of like do to kind of like push the marble at the top of the hill to to snowball into this big old kind of like massive snowball that we see today? And how did the the insights and the vision for Injective back then, how has it kind of like adapted and changed over time to meet where we're at today?" That is that's a great question. Um, so there there's two ways to answer this. The first way is that support from Binance went a long way because we were the first incubated project by Binance Labs and our goal was to create like a decentralized version of Binance. That was the first goal, right? Um, and that support meant a lot when it came to like us raising money in the future or us getting a stamp of approval from the community. It's like, hey, this project must be legit. Binance is backing them which meant a lot uh to us and to our community but I think in a huge way that vision just hasn't changed like we still want to build what Binance was able to do on but onchain um and the vision sort of was able to grow from that and it still inspires us to this day because what we realized over time is um and this is a very fast way to explain how injective was developed. Initially, we were just building a DEX and then as we were building the DEX, which was initially on Ethereum, we're like, hey, this can't handle the latency or the high frequency trading that Binance can provide. We need to build our own stack around it. Which led to us ultimately building our own chain around this product. As we were building that chain around that product, we realized, hey, people want to do more than just trade these assets. They seem to want to build their own exchanges on top. Um because we were getting reachouts from builders. It's like, hey, can I build my own exchange with this? Um and we realized, wait, if we truly want to be on chain and open source, we should enable everyone to build whatever they want and express their own ways to build. Um that's how you get an influx of users and a differentiation point. Because if you literally, this is something no one wants to say, does the dirty little secret of crypto. The average user, and I'm going to get killed for this, the average user does not care if something is onchain or off-chain. They do not care. It does not matter if you bought your token on Coinbase or on Injective, right? Like, you're getting the same token in the minds of the average retail user. Of course, there's some percentage of the population that really cares about the ethos of decentralization, etc., blah blah blah, but the average user has no care for it. But the only way for you to stand out as an onchain player or as a DeFi player is for you to do something different than what Coinbase or Binance or others are giving you, right? Um, and that's what led to our realization that, hey, we shouldn't just put these assets on chain. We should allow for new functionality. We should allow other people to build their own exchange on us or their own prediction markets on us. We should allow people to be able to trade any asset of their choice and take it in and out and go leverage with it. And most importantly, we should allow people to create any new market that they want. Um, because we shouldn't be the arbiters of like what market is listed or what is not listed. And that's what led to Injective really finding that product market fit in a big way because now you can have people creating markets. You can have people building new tools and products on you which someone like Coinbase or Binance can never provide. Like they will never be able to compete with that. Um because ultimately this is a product functionality that doesn't necessarily make a lot of business sense. Why would you as a company allow other people to copy what you built and build your own thing with it? But as a protocol, you have this unique advantage where you can say it doesn't matter if this makes a lot of money for us or if we end up losing money long time, but people care about this and this is filling a hole or a void that these centralized counterparts can't match. Um, and that's what led to everything you see on Injected today. Like us being able to offer tokenized equities or RWAs. It's not because it's a buzzword. It's because people actually care about having 24 access uh 24/7 access to tokenized stocks or being able to go leverage long or leverage short on something they don't believe in. Like the number of times people have told me it's like, "Hey, on Robin Hood, I can buy Tesla, but I I want to be able to short it 24/7. I want to be able to hedge it with my crypto." And that's like a real pain point and a use case that Injective is now able to fill. And that was because of this inherent realization that we had thankfully early on where we realized that this onchain stuff sounds great on paper and we care about it because we're nerds and we care about decentralization, but the average person doesn't care. So you need to build products and tools and modules and tool sets um and platforms and markets that are different uh full stop from what Binance or Coinbase is providing because still to this day the amount of hurdles you need to give to go on chain is crazy like you need to first get on Coinbase then you need to use a bridge or get your tokens on MetaMask then you need to get your tokens on Injective and then you can finally access everything we offer. Those hurdles all have costs. They all have fees. And no chain, in my opinion, my honest opinion, has fixed this hurdle because the average user is still onboarding via something like a Binance or Coinbase. They're not automatically downloading Jupiter or Helix or like trying out the Injective Bridge. So, if you think that the average user has to go through like 30 minutes of hurdle um and let's say like $15 in fees to withdraw their assets, your product needs to be so good and so different from a Coinbase that they're willing to make that jump. Otherwise, they'll never make that jump. Um, and I think the sooner more crypto folks realize this, the better our products will become. Because right now a lot of the issue I have with DeFi is they're just trying to replicate what already exists, but not many people care about what exists already. They want something new. So that's my little hot take or maybe not so hot take. &gt;&gt; No, I love it. Um, internally with with the team I work with day in and day out, we we constantly say that people don't really care about decentralization. It's only like a select few on CT who do. And and and you're bringing up a great point. I think the only project that is really going ham on solving this friction is Agoric and they're working on like orchestration, right? Where you can migrate assets from from here to there between chains with abstracting that sort of process from the user and it there it's few and far between which kind of like brings me to to a question I wanted to ask about the tech stack that Injective initially chose. Um, I believe you built on WOM, so and the Cosmos ecosystem. So, do you feel and and I love Cosmos. Um, I love like the the chain of chains like it's super cool decentralized tech, really good tech. It really hasn't taken off in in in the mainstream's eye or at least like the the &gt;&gt; it is mainly a developer focused product. Honestly, it's good if you want flexibility. &gt;&gt; That's what made us switch to Cosmos very early on or use the stack at least. I wouldn't say no one builds on Cosmos but their SDK is so good and performant. You can build anything you want. You can express your creativity with no limits. Um like yes we began with the Cosmos SDK but we effectively customized the entire stack where we have our own like governance modules. We have our own sort of onchain order book that we built around it or binary options that allow people to build things like prediction markets for elections. That customizability unfortunately doesn't exist on other chains. Like if we had built on let's say a Salana or an ET, yes they have their differences. Um I know that but ultimately you're reliant on that chain. Um so if that chain for some reason has some downtime, you're reliant on it. Um you're reliant on that chain infrastructure. Cosmos is unique is because they've divorced that reliance on the native chain. Like no one has to build on Cosmos itself. Most Cosmos chains that you know, BNB chain, Polygon, Injective, Bar Chains, um the list goes on, they will never say that they're Cosmos chains. They happen to build a chain using the Cosmos stack. And it's ultimately only because it's so customizable and so beautiful from a developer standpoint. But that's also what's led to the demise of Cosmos in my opinion because it hasn't caught mainstream appeal because Cosmos is so good and and such a purist product that they never took into account that none of these people building on them actually benefits the core Cosmos token in any way. Whereas if you build something on Solano or even ETH, you're paying gas fees. The money is somehow uh being burnt on on ETH. That's very clear like the revenue is getting burnt, the gas fees are getting burnt. um which is inherently valuable for the token holders, but Cosmos doesn't have that. They're just a developer tool or product that happens to have a token. I think that's a good way of framing um why we chose Cosmos or why Cosmos hasn't gotten mainstream appeal, but many chains built using the Cosmos stack have tremendous mainstream appeal. Um I'm not allowed to use this example that much anymore, but I will. But Terra is also built with the Cosmos stack and that was like a top 10 token. Um, Polygon for a time was a top 10 token, I believe, and that was also a Cosmos based stack and B&amp;B chain is a Cosmos based stack, but they'll never tell you that they're built on Cosmos. So, I think that's the reality. &gt;&gt; Yeah. So, you guys recently just launched an EVM test net um chain. So, I guess like despite the fact that the Cosmos SDK offers so much flexibility and you can do so much with it, we're still in an EVM world. So what was like what was that thought process? &gt;&gt; Yeah, it is an Ethereum world. We're just living in it. So the the the reality is and I say that as like the biggest Ethereum fanboy to be honest. It's what got me into crypto. So I'll always love Ethereum. I think um the the core focus for us was to get interesting products and to get users, you need interesting builders. And 90% plus of developer mind share today is still on EVM world or EVM land. So the wom layer allowed us to customize and build a very performant chain. But now to introduce builders to it, we also needed EVM. That was sort of the focus for it. But we didn't want to become every other EVM chain. What we did uniquely is say how can we retain all the modules and all this fancy customization work we did but just enable people to develop applications in solidity. That's that like that's it. like you don't have to do bridging. You can use the same token standard. That's why it took us so much longer than other projects to build our EVM chain because most projects what they do is say, "Hey, we're going to get rid of WOSM and just go full EVM." But that would get rid of so many things that make Injective interesting like our onchain order book, all the institutions we integrated into that layer that provide liquidity. So imagine now you can have developers in the same world build with solidity but have access to all the liquidity and all the apps that exist in Injective Wom side or the Cosmos side. Um, and that's never been done before. And that's what makes our EVM so interesting and different because what we're saying is the main value prop of Injective is this shared liquidity layer that we provide. All these institutional support, this beautiful order book we built where you effectively get a Binance or Coinbase type experience without front running, without ME. Um, we will lose it all if we get rid of WASM. But if we allow builders to come and utilize this in solidity, that opens up a whole new swath of builders and a whole new swath of projects that would never be able to access us before. Um, so that was really the focus point where we always we were initially building on Ethereum. I think I might have mentioned this earlier and we only switched to Cosmos because it had like roadblocks or throttles when it came to transaction speeds. You know the deal like throughput. Um, but we solved that at Injective. we want to retain that and have have EVM as an outlet for developers to express what they want to build. Um, so that vision was what inspired us, I would say, to build EVM in the first place on top of Injective. &gt;&gt; So then I'm just real curious and and we're running up against time, but and I also want to talk about all the things that's happening with the ETFs and and the DATs, but what's like the the appetite then for the EVM side chain? Is it a side chain? Is it is it an L2? um what what's like the current appetite from solidity developers that you're seeing? &gt;&gt; The developer activity uh for EVM is tremendous. So basically the appetite we see just in EVM land is much higher than WASM. So what we realized very early on is WAM land is very limited in terms of the number of builders. Um and we pretty much have conquered that space. There's like pretty much if you had a project on Cosmos or In Wom you the app exists on Injective today, but now you can have huge players like Chain Link and 1 in um work with us. You can have huge players like Athena work with us. Um and that wasn't necessarily possible before because of that roadblock on the Wom side. Um also the transferability of assets is a huge deal because now we can get things like native stable coins and native um issuance on our chain where before if you would go to someone like a circle they would say hey we can't integrate this this would take forever now that we have EVM they're like hey this this will maybe take a couple months back we can make this happen so that level of support is much more well thought out in EVM land and the developer support metrics are way more well thought out um which makes our transition position much easier when it comes to being able to appeal to more builders, giving them more support. Um, also the dev tooling on EVM is unmatched. Like Salana is good, but even Salana does not come close to the amount of tooling and experimentation that exists in EVM land. Um, and I think that's very much hard to build because you need a community that's been building years and years. And you said it perfectly before like you were thinking about giving up on ETH like as all of us were in 2018 2019 but like the builders were here and they were building throughout thick and thin. Very few projects can say that. Very few projects can say they survived that while still retaining immense developer interest and mind share. Um I think that's what makes Ethereum and EVM in general so special. &gt;&gt; Yeah, I agree. Okay, so kind of like zooming out and wrapping up. Um, Injective is making huge splashes to today, this week, this month when people are going to be listening to this because we're starting to see super prolific Wall Street facing partnerships and opportunities that are arising. The two I kind of want to talk about really briefly are Pineapple Financial and Canary Capital. So, first, Pineapple uh Pineapple Financial um is a publicly listed fintech company that's trading on the New York Stock Exchange, and they announced that they're going to do a $100 million fund raise to acquire inj the the native Injective token as part of their digital asset treasury. How do how did you guys go about like getting this set up? Because at first it was crazy when Micro Strategy was doing Bitcoin for for their debt and now we have Tom Lee doing it with Ethereum and people are like ah it can't there there literally can't be any others and now we have a mortgage company kind of like going ham on Injective. So like what is how did that come about and like from your perspective what is it that they see in you guys? &gt;&gt; Yeah I I think both are great questions. So we saw the rise of DATs very early on. I would say six, seven months ago, we already started to hear murmurings. Um, and I knew about Asbet that Joe Luben was going to do that and and do something big for Ethereum. Obviously, Bitmon blew it out of the water where uh Tom Lee was fantastic and and ETH is where it is because of some of the work Tom Lee and and Espine have been doing. Um, there were many companies that approached us. The biggest issue I had with dads and I and I'll stand on on the same uh footing until the day I die. I think a lot of these are like ponzies. The the reason I don't like many of them is because what will happen is you have a failed biotech company or a failed vaping company and they'll say, "Hey, we're doing crypto now." Just in the hope that their stock goes up. I didn't necessarily see any inherent synergy. It was like a shell that people are using to get like these treasuries live. What was so interesting for us and Pineapple when they reached out to us is hey here's an actual fintech company and their synergies here because last year they did $2.5 billion in issuance of mortgages though imagine we could put that on chain like figure just went public and they're worth like 67 billion bucks and they also only processed a few billion dollars in mortgages last year and they do a lot of their work offchain it's not necessarily onchain so imagine we bring those pineapple assets onchain so yes is them buying inj special and the fact that they raised $100 million. Yes, that's amazing. But the reason why Pineapple is interesting for Injective specifically is we're this blockchain for finance and Pineapple is a fintech company first. And if we can tokenize these assets, then this digital asset treasury goes beyond just a company, a random unaffiliated industry buying your token. It happens to be a company that can actually work with you long term and grow with us. Inj is like a huge part of their strategy and the best way to help INJ in my opinion is to help the ecosystem in chain to bring us more assets to bring us more volume to bring us more users. I think that's why it was so interesting for us when this deal came about. Um and I think that's very different from how other DATs are approaching the space today. &gt;&gt; 100%. And if you just look at like RWA's coming on chain, the chart is just up and to the right for all the verticals. Um, so it's it's super cool to see Injective kind of like capturing this momentum that is going to only continue as we get more and more procrypto legislation enacted here in the states. Um, one last thing before I let you go, I wanted to bring up uh Canary Capital. Um, they're filing for the first ever US staked INJ ETF. What are the kind of like holdups that we're seeing? because we just saw this week that the ETH staking ETFs are going to still get delayed once again by SEC review. So, what does this mean in the grand scheme of things to have an INJ ETF to potentially have like staking as a part of it? What are your concerns or your thoughts about forward guidance towards inind redemptions? Just kind of like what's your verbal drop on ETFs? So, I think it is a boon for the industry if more ETFs get approved because effectively it's an outlet for an average investor to be able to access your token, right, without having to go through all the hurdles we mentioned earlier. You don't have to bridge. You don't have to get your money on Coinbase and then bridge out. You can just have you can just purchase this ETF and it will and an sophisticated asset manager like Canary Capital will go ahead and stake those assets and pass that yield on to you. So that part is so interesting for us because Injectives yield is so attractive. Um it's like 12.4% today. Um and that's far higher than many other chains. So if that yield exists and we can guarantee it because effectively um valuators are guaranteeing it. Maybe I shouldn't use the word guarantee. It's asterric because technically the staking rate can fluctuate. I know my lawyers will ask me to say that. Um, but the but the staking rate is really great on Injective. And if Canary can pass that on to an average user who might be using Robin Hood to access this ETF, then you unlock a whole world of opportunity because what's happening right now is between you and me and between everyone else in the world. Interest rates are going to continue to get cut as the economy continues to worsen. Like that's not so much of a secret. And once that happens, people will be looking for a yield outlet that is safe. Uh staking is one of the safest yield outlets where it is it is not related to some stablehood or anything else. It is just a a monetary reward for you helping to secure the chain. Um and as interest rates go down, people will be earning less yield on their Wealthfront accounts and their Robin Hood accounts and their Marcus by Goldman Sachs accounts. And that's when these ETFs become really attractive where people can not only access this innovative asset like INJ, but they can also access the yield. Um I think the biggest holdup right now is the government hasn't given a clear framework on how they want to treat staking. Um but that will get resolved. I think a lot of people in BC ourselves included are working to pass along this agenda. A lot of our policy papers that we're publishing are based around this as issue as well. Um because I think once the government gets their head around this that hey staking is a form of yield that is paid uh for you helping to secure a chain or a financial asset, it starts to make a lot of sense. Um and I think ETFs are only valuable with that staking component because otherwise all you're doing is allowing people to buy ETH through an ETF. You might as well have bought that ETH yourself and not paid an asset manager. But if you have the yield component, technically it's better because you don't have to go through the hurdles of staking yourself or figuring out how to stake on chain. It just automatically happens for you and that yield is passed on to you and the asset management fee doesn't affect you because most of these have like asset management fees these ETFs because the yield can help subsidize that asset management fee. So it's actually net more beneficial for you to access this ETF. Um, so that's my take and my take as to specifically why staking uh for these assets is so important. &gt;&gt; Awesome. Um, and I just want to show the Injective ecosystem in general. There's 100 million in circulating supply and 54.7 million are staked. That's a higher amount of staked INJ than we see in almost any other blockchain ecosystem out there. So, not only do you have like a super high interest rate, you also have more than half of the token supply being staked, there's also ingj being burned. So, at the risk of like opening up another can of worms that keeps you here for 5 minutes, what's like a highlevel oneword or single sentence um perspective you can give us as to why there is such a high percentage of INJ that's staked in your ecosystem. &gt;&gt; Um community one word I I think we spent years and years doing it. We came out in like out of the worst bare market, two bad bare markets actually. uh the bare market of 2019 and then the bare market uh with FTX and Luna crashing. We stuck through it and I think a lot of the community members continue to believe in us and continue to stake. Uh we have like hundreds of thousands of individual community members staking their tokens. Um I think that speaks volumes as to how Injective operates and why we are where we are today. &gt;&gt; Amazing. Mira, thank you so much for your time today. Who do you want to chat with and what's the best way they can reach out to you? Best way is miraza on Twitter. That is the easiest way to reach out to me. Uh I'm happy to talk to anyone. I get DMs all the time and I'm like really responsive even on Twitter DMs. &gt;&gt; Awesome. Thank you so much for your time today. Um it was truly a pleasure to chat with you. &gt;&gt; Yeah, same here. Thank you so much. &gt;&gt; Thank you for tuning in to the Smart Economy Podcast. To stay in the loops with all of our latest episodes and insights, head over to www.smarteconomyodcast.com. smarteconomyodcast.com and don't forget to subscribe to our YouTube channel for all of our video content. If you enjoyed today's discussion, please consider showing your support by liking, commenting, and reviewing this episode on your favorite podcasting platform. Your feedback helps us reach more listeners and bring even better content your way. We'd also love to hear from you. So, please drop a comment on Spotify or YouTube to share what topics you'd like us to cover or who you'd like to see as our next guest. And if you or someone you know would make a great guest, please reach out. We're always on the hunt for fresh voices and new perspectives. And if you're a NEO token holder, please consider voting for Neo News Today as your council representative. We've proudly been serving the NEO ecosystem since 2017 and we'll continue to do so by putting portions of our council rewards directly back into ecosystem growth initiatives. So once again, thank you for listening to the Smart Economy podcast and we look forward to catching you next time.