Code is easy. Distribution is hard. Token doesn't necessarily mean product market fit either. Air drops don't mean retention. Yield doesn't necessarily mean utility. Hey everyone, welcome to the Smart Economy podcast where we ask your favorite builders the questions you wish you could ask yourself. This is a production of neonnewstoday.com and I'm your host Dylan Grabowski. In this episode, we're joined by Arian Shaalon, the head of research at CMT Digital, a blockchain and web3 proprietary trading and venture capital firm focused on earlystage investments that accelerate the adoption of blockchain technology. In this conversation, we discussed Arian's introduction into the blockchain technology sector when he was in college, the early years of CMT and how the CMT digital subsidiary evolved in the post Silk Road auctions, the stage of projects that CMT digital likes to invest in, the role that VC plays in blockchain industries maturation, key takeaways from the past eight years, and so much more. Just a reminder, nothing said on this podcast is a solicitation to buy or sell any tokens and that the guest or host might hold tokens discussed in any given episode. You can check out a full disclaimer at www.neontoday.com. If you enjoyed this episode, please rate and review it on your favorite podcasting platform and don't forget to share it with friends and family. Every rating, review, like, comment, and share helps us reach more people and bring you more of your favorite guests. I really enjoyed this conversation with Arian, and I hope you enjoy it, too. Hey everyone, welcome to the Smart Economy podcast. Today we're joined by Arian Shikalian, the head of research and investor at CMT Digital, a VC firm that is investing in early stage blockchain projects. Arian, how you doing today? &gt;&gt; Hey Dylan, great to meet you, mate. Thank you for having me on. &gt;&gt; Absolutely. Um I think before we hit record, I was mentioning how excited I am to have someone from the VC realm come back on the pod. It's been a couple years since and I personally like having conversations with VCs because VCs bring a completely holistic and different perspective to the industry in the market than maybe someone building a DAP or an engineer or even a crypto trader or anything like that. So, with that caveat and everything kind of like out of the way, let's just take a step back and I love to ask this first question as we jump off into the pod. What's your genesis story with crypto? When did you first hear about Bitcoin, blockchain, crypto, Ethereum? And if you're anything like me or 90% of our guests, you just kind of like looked past it and then you had an aha moment later. So, what was your aha moment? I first learned about Bitcoin and crypto back in 2015 16 time frame. It was uh I was working at Accentra as a management consultant you know business analyst over in London and uh I was working with a number of financial services firms and they were doing change management so kind of you know firewall upgrades on ATMs things like that. So not particularly exciting but my implementation partner on the stakeholder side was a cryptography Bitcoin fanatic got me into the space. I started reading about Bitcoin. Uh one of the first books I read was Blockchain Revolution. Um and so when I went over to America I came here to to study um I started you know reading about the technology. I wrote to Don Tabscott who was the author of blockchain revolution and Jenna Pilgrim I met through the rowing community and they brought me on as a intern in my freshman year and that's how I kind of got introduced to the space. This was around the ICO era and so looking into kind of use cases of blockchain technology that and at the time I was studying economics and mathematics and in mathematics uh the part that I was specializing in was cryptography and kind of distributed systems and so I started thinking about you know yes bitcoin is is one application of of distributed computing here but really where can I go from here and that was really the rabbit hole for me. started reading about mechanism design for consensus mechanisms. That's where I was writing on with the Barri and then uh DeFi and how it could kind of transform the traditional finance landscape. &gt;&gt; Very cool. Were you brought on to Colombia to to be on the rowing team? &gt;&gt; I was. Yeah, I was recruited. &gt;&gt; Okay. I have a question. The Heart of Champions, a film backed by the Winkl Voss brothers. Have you seen it? &gt;&gt; No. Is that to do with boats? Boys in the boat? &gt;&gt; Yes, it it has. It's a rowing movie and it's completely out there and ridiculous, but the Winklevoss twins funded it because they themselves were in the rowing community before they went on to Facebook and and do what they did. &gt;&gt; Right. Right. I I should definitely check that out. I haven't checked it out. &gt;&gt; Yeah. Get ready to be angry from what I've read from the rowing community. &gt;&gt; Very cool. Let's like take a step back then and uh share a little bit more about how you ended up at Colombia. Was this for postgraduate? Was it for graduate school? Did you go there to study computer science? What was kind of like the draw uh to wanting to study there in addition to being on the rowing team? &gt;&gt; Yeah, for me it was being in the city. New York City is obviously, you know, a great entry point to the United States. And as someone coming in, I thought that was a great place to spend my four years undergrad. Um, so it was undergrad. I knew that I wanted to study economics and mathematics. I knew that that is what I wanted kind of the core of my studies to be around and Columbia did offer a joint economics and mathematics program which I found really compelling. I also did find the core curriculum quite compelling that was kind of this more holistic well-rounded education in the liberal arts and you know if if I wasn't compelled to do it I probably wouldn't have. So it was a good thing that I chose Colombia. But being in in New York, you know, back in 2017 after I got back from the blockchain research institute, um I helped co-ound the blockchain club at Columbia. And in the early days, it was useful being in the city to be able to access all the events that were happening downtown. And um yeah, if it wasn't for the city, I'm not sure if I would have had that same level of early exposure. &gt;&gt; And what was the general excitement about the blockchain club at the time? I would imagine since we're talking 2017 ICO era, there were probably a lot of interested people. In 2022, I went to a wide variety of universities across the US to go talk about building careers in web 3 and spoke with blockchain clubs in the Midwest along the the the coast of California. And there was a lot of hunger and this was kind of like during a bearish time. So, it was refreshing to see students wanting to build in blockchain and web 3 during the 2022 bare market. What were the vibes like when when you started the blockchain club and is the torch still being carried today? &gt;&gt; Yeah, well I mean the torch is very much being carried today. The the folks over at Lion Dow and and Blockchain Club of Columbia have just been, you know, moving the club forward in a way that I couldn't have even envisioned at the time. Um so one of the first meetings that we had was in fall of 2017. So this was right after that summer. Things were kind of peak euphoria at the time. Um there's there's only a few ma there's only a few classrooms on campus that can actually have capacity for a large number of students at the kind of for a club level. And so we booked out one of the rooms in the math building on the lower floor, one of the largest classrooms. And there was like standing room only. There were hundreds of people who showed up for the first meeting. And then we broke for winter and the 20,000 Bitcoin peak happened and then it crashed and the first meeting back was like crickets. it was like maybe 10 people and so yeah definitely the attendance followed the price action in the early days but you know seeing how the group came together more and more frequently afterwards and has obviously carried on past individual cycles it really thanks to the folks like Near and you know Adrian and you know all the all the folks that carried on the club uh after its initial forming that we have to thank. Have you been brought back on as like a speaker for for events or anything like that? &gt;&gt; Yeah, I think it was lioned out event in New York and I was on the past president's panel. It was that was awesome. &gt;&gt; Yeah, that's that's awesome to come back to your alma mater and kind of uh espouse the ways of of working in this industry. Do you recall during the time if your professors were skeptical of the technology? Were were they more focused on like Bitcoin as an asset? Because a lot of skepticism I've heard from academia has been more tied to the price action and its volatility and that kind of overshadows the technology and the innovation that it represents, &gt;&gt; right? And I mean perhaps I was a little bit too early to be able to feedback because when I was studying there wasn't a huge number of classes that were available in in blockchain. A lot of them were kind of geared towards the business school. I actually I've connected with with Siam uh from Colombia since and he seems to be doing some great work there in getting kind of more cryptonative thought around the topic. But you know, I think it's something that people have started out very very pragmatic in the academia kind of realm and have become slowly more and more pled on the topic. And so I think we're a uh healthy medium where obviously academic rigor with distributed computing goes back decades and is and a lot of the foundations is still rooted in theory and so there's no reason for that to change. It's just a question of applications of of the technology and and how that's covered and I wouldn't be able to tell you. &gt;&gt; I wonder if the pipeline and this is probably a speculative question if the pipeline has gotten a little bit more solidified or become more amalgamated as we've seen trifi institutions start to build out their L2s. We see trifi institutions start to create financial instruments that are that are baked around these digital assets. I just wonder if like business schools are starting to funnel more students into the web 3 space because we are seeing this kind of I don't know if it's the right way of like a stamp of approval from historical institutions but for more for for lack of better words that's essentially what we're seeing especially in the past year or two with the Bitcoin ETFs I'm not sure if you can even provide an answer or have any insights to that &gt;&gt; part of me says yes just because of visibility right and I think while you're in further education I accessibility or or perceived acceptance of some technology is important as a kind of predicate for getting involved. But when looking at some of those ETFs or instruments that are being created, they're not necessarily leaning into the full value of what blockchain technology or cryptocurrency technology can actually provide. It's it's all very much enshrined within the existing system and existing structures. And of course that's a stepping stone, but it's not really ushering people into, you know, cryptonative applications. It's it's more kind of the adoption life cycle. Uh, which I think is equally important, but ultimately a different angle of attack. Yeah, I was actually having this conversation last night with somebody where, you know, maybe this this time in this market cycle is different because in previous market cycles, we would see kind of Bitcoin acrue all this value and then that would leak out to altcoins to other web 3 verticals because profits were taken and they were distributed into other ecosystems. And maybe we don't necessarily see that because as we've seen in the past year kind of Bitcoin rallied largely probably due to these ETFs. Not financial advice. I could just be pulling all of this out of thin air. Um but this has been my speculation that the Bitcoin price has appreciated because we've seen a lot of Tradfy institutions acquire Bitcoin. However, it's been in this kind of traded off or it's like stuck behind a moat from the rest of the web 3 space. So maybe this time is different because we won't necessarily see these gains and these profits be taken off the table and distributed into NFTTS, L2s, what have you. And so I wonder if maybe this time is different because a lot of this value is kind of like encumbered within a Tradfi rapper. &gt;&gt; Yeah, for sure. And I think that's part of Bitcoin's story of finding product market fit. I mean, Bitcoin's product as being the ultimate kind of protection against currency debasement, if that product had found product market fit in cycles past, we wouldn't have seen that leakage to altcoins. And so, I think if Bitcoin's kind of value capture and and the lack of an altcoin cycle that we're seeing this year is reflective of that, then I think that would make sense. I mean, institutions aren't going to take profits and rotate into Malay NFTts, but you know, individuals may. So, I think that makes sense. &gt;&gt; Yeah, institutions aren't here for the culture yet. Um, so before we kind of like get into what CMT Digital is doing, I did just kind of want to touch really quickly on your tenure at Blockchain Research Institute. How did you get connected with that team? What were you working on? And then how did that kind of like funnel you into being in the space full-time? Well, I mean I I got connected to the team. So, shout out Jenna Pilgrim from Coin Fund. Uh her and I became friends through the rowing community. She was also a rower and I expressed my interest in in the space and she connected me with with Don Tabscott and that's how I started working at the institute. Um at the beginning it was very much you know try and absorb as much as you can you know learn about ICOs and learn about EOS and ICP and you know it was interesting and that introduced me to so the first research that I did with them was on how mechanism design impacted uh a roll out for for these projects and in the early days there was obviously a lot of experimentation on consensus mechanisms and so the the research was basically ally looking at, you know, 2,000 or so different projects with different consensus mechanisms and running regression analysis on mechanism design. So looking at, you know, for consensus itself on a scale of 0 to one, how decentralized is consensus? You know, is is voting a black box or is it delegated proof of stake? So all of these different design choices that you can make for consensus, we kind of laid out and uh tried to find significance when it came to long-term price performance uh traction of the project. It's interesting because the only thing we found significance at was governance at the 5% level. Um so if there was governance inherent or you know present then the token was likely to perform better. uh a lot of the time the governance wasn't actually implemented. It was just kind of touted or marketed. And I think that's that's interesting cuz some things never change. &gt;&gt; What happened then? Because I remember in 2017 it was if you had your white paper with your consensus model and TPS kind of shilling that then that was the killer kind of thing that would attract people to coins. And today in 2025 we rarely hear about consensus mechanism. We rarely hear about TPS and the the throughput of the network unless of course you're talking about Salana. So like where where did that go? Did we just as an industry mature beyond this kind of like single thing that was super impressive about distributed networks or is it just kind of swept under the rug now and just a a minor part of what people look at when they're looking to build on these networks? &gt;&gt; Yeah, I mean I do think it's a minor part now. I I do think it's it is obviously still a major part of the decision when you're looking at kind of what what environment to exist on. But the reason I think it's become less of a important consideration is because we haven't really tested the upper bounds of of these things because there hasn't been application activity that's broad enough to actually, you know, justify one TPS over another. And I'd say that that becomes more of an important conversation when we do start reaching those upper bounds. And kind of parts of my thoughts around Ethereum's future kind of lie in this kind of direction specifically. Ethereum has all of these applications building on top of it and making use of its block space. To what extent can it actually provide value to those applications in the long run and and it's not as a result of higher TPS uh like offloading to someone like Monad at least today. and and so it's a it's a question of which comes first, the environment that can support that high throughput application or the high throughput application which then necessitates the environment. &gt;&gt; I want to delve into that a little bit um later as we kind of like jump into general trends or kind of like general blockchain conversation levels in 2025. But let's first figure out how you got connected with CMT digital. You're based in Chicago. Is is the team based in Chicago? Um, how did this relationship form? &gt;&gt; Yeah, so CMT Digital is based in Chicago. I'll give you an intro to the CMT Digital group a little bit more in depth here. So, one of my roommates in college was actually from Chicago. I visited in like sophomore year for um LA Palooa of all things. And for me personally, New York was getting a bit too much. I wanted to move to a city that was a little bit more manageable. So, I' I'd fallen in love with Chicago since sophomore year. I knew that I wanted to uh come out here. I was looking at different opportunities within the space and Chicago was was one that I was actually gearing towards specifically. So got connected to the CMT team. Colleen was still here. So Colleen Sullivan and I spoke and I met Sam and um Charlie shortly thereafter on our team. And I think it was just a very good team fit. I I found the the people here really curious, humble, and kind of highly highly aware of the opportunity at hand. And being able to explore that in a way that is open to these radical ideas in a way that's not necessarily encumbered by traditional methods was was really encouraging. And you know, CMT has this history of being a really nimble firm. It was established back in 97 as a proprietary trading firm. So it came out of the electronic trading markets opportunity. Origin originally it was established in Frankfurt, Germany. You know we still maintain those trading activities globally today. But as a trading firm I think its history has always been rooted in opportunistic engagement. And so in 2013 um during the Silk Road auction the team here saw something unique. how is the US Marshall Service selling Bitcoin in 2013? So, I think it was seeing that unfold um thinking about the ramifications and making proactive steps of joining something like the blockchain association which they did really early and kind of becoming engaged in those early policy discussions really set up the team to engage in a way that would have otherwise been pretty difficult. So I'm curious then in 2013, is it just like a small kind of portion of of CMT that was set aside to kind of look at this emerging asset class in this emerging sector or was this from the top down kind of a general consensus within the the entity that blockchain and crypto is something that we're going to look into? &gt;&gt; Well, that was it really. It was Gan and Scott, the the founders of the firm. um looking into it and seeing the opportunity with Bitcoin and deciding that it is going to be a big portion of the firm's future. And so then that's when CMT digital was actually established. Initial investments were made around 2015. The crypto trading desk was spun up full-time in 2017 and then uh they acquired the RAIA from the SEC and launched the first venture fund in 2018. So yeah, it was very much a proactive from from the founders down that yeah, this is something that we're bullish on and we want to be part of this broader market transformation. &gt;&gt; So pardon my ignorance, is CMT Digital um the the entire parent company or is this kind of like uh a subsidiary of CMT? &gt;&gt; Yeah. So we're CMT Digital is a subsidiary of the CMT group. &gt;&gt; Perfect. Yeah. Because the if you go to CMT.digital, digital. The tagline is backing extraordinary founders building on the frontier of blockchain innovation. Hell of a title, hell of a of a leadin. So, what is CMT digital predominantly focused on today? And at what stage of a project are you guys looking for to invest into teams? Preed seed is kind of my main focus. Obviously, we look at series A, series B as much as we can, but we're we're targeting, you know, ownership early in in these companies, and I think given the landscape and given how many different funds there are, I think that necessitates us to engage and become convicted earlier and earlier or as early as possible. that has I mean it's important to note that I think since the founding of the firm the the market has gone through so many different cycles and the types of businesses that we're investing in are changing and so kind of early early engagement you know we were investing into the picks and shovels things like Falcon X things like kind of consensus some DYDX some of the early kind of adopters but obviously as that shifts as As the market matures, I think it necessitates investing in other areas. So, as applications become more and more viable, looking at the application stack or if engagement with the trad industry starts deepening, looking at infrastructure tooling that could support acceleration there. I think it's it has to be a dynamic and proactive engagement strategy or investment strategy, uh, which isn't necessarily the same all the time. I think for anybody who's been in the space since 2015, 16,1 17, 18, there's probably a lot of earned cynicism from just hearing nonsense shield year after year and promises made that were never kept. And I remember 2017 ICO era, you had decentralizing everything. We're going to decentralize Uber, they raised $18 million. We're going to decentralize Airbnb, they raised $12 million. and these teams never delivered. And I think like if you've been around for five, six, seven plus years, you kind of get grizzled and maybe you don't have the same faith in a utopian future that this technology can offer. But now in 2025, it feels like for the first time that blockchain and and distributed storage or distributed systems can deliver something unique. So are we finally there? Are we finally at the precipice where large promises can be made and maybe they can even be kept? Are we at the point in this technologies life cycle where a decentralized application can actually provide more value than its centralized counterpart? &gt;&gt; I think this is a really important point. One of the things that I like to emphasize is that and you're completely right, decentralization has become a bit of a meme, especially for those of us who have been in this space for many, many years. I like to say that we like to invest in decentralized systems with pragmatism or decentralization with utility. So we have a strong preference for protocols where decentralization isn't just this ideological target or this kind of signal but more of a functional necessity. Let me give you an example like AI and and I know AI has become incredibly you know it's it's filled with all of these jargon points and and mimemetic engagement but the point is that the data used for training does kind of exist in this distributed fashion. So does the the the the compute is also accessible in a distributed fashion. If the data and the compute both naturally exist in a distributed fashion, if you could make it possible for decentralized training to be as performant as centralized training, then it would position the data and the compute access access much more favorably than centralized access. You'd be able to access the same level of compute and data far cheaper purely as a function of where that compute and that data already sits. And so obviously so much research has to go into that. Noose research is doing great work with things like dstroke but the the pragmatism is is holding us back and getting involved until we have a clear picture of how that compute and data access problem is going to play out. But I think for some deep in applications rethinking how infrastructure works just in the world I think proximity to a viable decentralized product is much much closer and and that's when we start thinking about things like telecom. You know think about the capital expenditure that had to go into building those early telecom towers. If technology is moved forward in a way where something like helium can be as performant using alternative infrastructure like these hotspots, then that does start to become viable. And so I think that's where we're looking specifically. We're looking for where decentralization comes with an immediate utility unlock uh that can look to kind of risk the incumbent's business model. I'm wondering if because we always talk about onboarding the first billion users into blockchain networks and people just don't care about centralized entities that own their data. We've seen all sorts of credit agencies leak information. We've seen major corporate conglomerates leak our private information. I'm pretty sure everybody today is used to getting scam text messages and scam calls from some of their data that was leaked onto a blacklist as long ago as 10 years ago now. I remember my first major hack was the Equifax hack. We as a society still just don't care about owning our own data, maintaining, you know, this ability to choose who we want to give our data to. And I'm just wondering if maybe I put on my speculation hat a little bit. We could be at the precipice for society starting to care about something like this when we grasp how significant an entity like ChatGpt having access to all this data and being able to leverage its own internal LLMs and its own internal AI compute systems. When we realize how powerful a centralized entity like this can become, do you think like this is like a Mr. Robot moment that could scare society into caring about decentralized solutions and into owning our own data and maybe even like sovereign in identity solutions? Or are we still kind of like far away from mainstream caring about this stuff? &gt;&gt; I mean, I I see two parts forward. either users gradually slowly start to care about decentralization when they experience a centralized failure for themselves personally and obviously that's going to be a slow linear adoption cycle where you know individuals are either the victims of a hack or a data breach or data exploitation and they just decide you know enough is enough and I want to evaluate alternatives and at which point you know decentralized systems can provide a viable alternative. Sure, I see that as one approach. I I do think that there is a kind of structural shift that could happen with AI if decentralization can slot in to current systems. So for example, if decentralization can replicate centralized systems but invisibly and impactfully like if if if you can then solve real real problems as a result of you having ownership of your own data and that is such a broader postmarket transformation reality because you have so many different industries than being able to collaborate. I'm assuming that one of the main benefits of owning your own data is the the portability or the composability that comes with it and for that to happen you need to have you know market transformation not just in one vertical but broadly and so I think that's as a result of you know communities developers but also policy makers and who knows what sort of policies could come out of AI. I also think one of the most important points is the rails the the financial rails and that's one of the most exciting things about what's happening today in the market. If you have a broad financial rail shift from Tradfi stable coins to DeFi stable coins, I think that changes the adoption life cycle for other decentralized systems because going back to the point of you know why is this decentralized for any decentralized application? I think they need to answer what benefit does the user get from this being decentralized and is the user able to access this decentralized infrastructure. And a lot of the time the benefit of decentralization is around incentive coordination. For incentive coordination you need a viable scalable way of coordinating those incentives which is in for lack of a better words money. And so stable coins being ubiquitous with Tradfi definitely accelerates that in my opinion because it it enlarges the pool of participants. &gt;&gt; Yeah. So we actually just saw here in the states the Genius Act get signed into effect by uh President Trump. So what is the significance that this has on the industry? We won't see any kind of like rubber meeting the road probably until 2026 when these laws are are enacted and come into effect. But what's the significance of this moment? A lot of people who are probably like OG cipher punk Bitcoin dieards probably are thinking this is a big bootlicking opportunity where we have stable coins representing the US dollar increasing the heedgeimony of this fiat currency being distributed across the world on a brand new technology rails. You might have a lot of cynicism from from OGs, but stable coins are probably the killer crypto use case and have been for the past two, three, four years maybe even. So, what's the significance from your perspective of the United States finally enacting some stable coin legislation and having a pro-stable coin outlook now um in the US and how does that emanate to the rest of the world and to the work that you do? &gt;&gt; It's hugely impactful. Um, we've been waiting for this sort of legislation as an industry for many, many years. For them to be signed or announced on the same day, I think was pretty impactful as well. There was a lot of euphoria there. I think it comes down to what the US's motivation is. And it's becoming increasingly clear to me that a huge benefit to the US is dollar hedgemony in the sense that they do need to maintain kind of the velocity of the US dollar. And this is such a such a elegant way of exponentially increasing the velocity of the dollar or or giving an access to to people who would want to trade in in US dollars. But it's it's expanding it outside of the jurisdiction of someone like Swift, which is pretty interesting considering that's never really happened before. And it's happening at a time when other countries are talking about bricks and alternative currencies. And so I think it makes sense from that sort of policy perspective. And that's perhaps why we're seeing this shift in the outlook. I also do think it's important for US tech supremacy. If if if applications who come out of the US are going to continue leading the way forward, I think they need to do so in under regulatory environments that are favorable to them. And I think that was just a swing back in in terms of policy outlook under this administration. feel free to if this is too policy, too macro, or just outside of like the general realm in which you have an insight or opinion on this, but um when we saw uh and not to get too political, but when we saw Russia invade Ukraine, the US responded by sanctioning Russia and kicking them off Swift. In my perspective, that was kind of doing something that the world thought was unthinkable. the US kicking off a superpower off of the payments rails. And so to me that was a point of no return. And ultimately it seemed like blockchain rails were going to win because they were this permissionless borderless network in which anybody can transact on. So, was the result of removing a superpower off of Swift, did that kind of supercharge blockchain enabled international payment rails? And was it almost inevitable that we were going to have pro-stablecoin policy in the US? And again, if this is like out of your wheelhouse, please feel free to let me know and we can move on. It might not have necessarily supercharged blockchain payment rails specifically, but I think it definitely reframed in a way how the world thinks about financial infrastructure. I mean the significance is is really this is like what was it the first G20 country that was pulled off of the system and and Swift obviously was seen as neutral plumbing in the sense that it was financial infrastructure that anyone has access to. But at the same time, we saw China moving towards more of a CBDC type program and and uh CIPS integration and and we saw sanctioned and non-permitted nations being began exploring that kind of Bitcoin mining as we saw in Iran and USDT settlements. I don't think it supercharged blockchain payments equally. Um I think narrative and legitimate legitimacywise yes crypto saw a boost onchain FX saw an increase in adoption. Stripe PayPal Visa obviously started getting involved but we haven't seen full-scale migrations of global trade settlement to any sort of blockchain yet. And um Russia has began kind of engaging with China on settlement in bricks as opposed to any sort of blockchain space system. And so I think things like liquidity, regulation, and compliance are still somewhat gating factors when it comes to that broader transformation. It's just I think it accelerated the perception of the financial rails problem that existed. &gt;&gt; Cool. Let's uh let's come down from the 10,000 foot view a little bit and talk about your day-to-day at CMT Digital. So what's your specific role at CMT Digital? What are you doing on your day-to-day? who are you predominantly interfacing with? &gt;&gt; Yeah, so day-to-day looking at projects that are building in the space, looking at investing in them, diligencing them, but also more broadly looking at thesis formation, looking at kind of what is changing in the landscape, how do we expect potential changes to to to shake up the the industry? Things like restaking when they came out, looking at kind of the future of Ethereum here today, for example. those sort of broader market questions are the ones that I like to engage with early and kind of build out a thesis on because I do think it's important to have a fundamental thesis when you're looking at investing in some of these longer time frame opportunities. &gt;&gt; Yeah, I was just um commiserating with my chiropractor today. He's an OG and one of the the group chats we're in is full of these folks who like to make grandiose speculations but never like to do post-mortems on the speculations that didn't slap. So what's kind of the the process for for you and your team to look back on your thesis maybe from a year ago, from three years ago, from 5 years ago, and what's the process of iterating on top of the things you got right, but as well as identifying and and fixing the things in which you got wrong? &gt;&gt; Yeah. So I mean, we have annual offsets specifically for this and we'll we actually just had one. So fresh I'm coming to you fresh. Um, we basically look at the thesis that we had in the past and and investments that we made with specific thesis and evaluate kind of what we think went right, what we think went wrong, how that affects our outlook on the future of this specific thesis. But I also think it's important to talk to other folks that are really boots on the ground. I think there's a lot of different um, obviously different investment firms, but also researchers at other protocols. And I feel like researchers have a bit of camaraderie between us and and things like you know the ox research uh group from block works. Researchers tend to coalesce around these kind of rabbit holes and and find each other. And so the research and community I think is one of the most the ones that I value most in the space just because they are always in the weeds and they are always looking at these uh topics. I think a thesis that's really kind of interesting to look back on is within DeFi. For example, last year, uh, Matt and I from our team were looking at composability and and looking at modularity within DeFi building blocks. Things like Oiler and Maple became kind of core positions, liquid positions for us as a result of that research of what's going to give them the edge over incumbents. Well, it's the ability to plug into one aspect of it in a modular way and composability with existing infrastructure and we kind of wrote a whole piece on it. It is actually starting to play out which is hugely encouraging. Um that obviously never is not necessarily always how it happens. Some of the thesis that we have are far too early. Some of them are just not going to pan out the way that we envision. And so I I think it's important to have a thesis but also not be hyper rigid on this is the only way that things are going to go. It's about monitoring how that thesis is developing and uh reframing it if necessary. &gt;&gt; I love seeing Maple's success today. We had Sid on the pod in maybe 2022, very early 2023. And it's really cool to kind of see how their RWA thesis uh was indeed correct and how it's playing out. and it's just super cool to see projects survive and thrive um years after we've had conversations with them. Um I want to lean into kind of a question about the role of VCs in the industry. But before we do that, maybe uh as a launchpad or or diving board into that question, maybe we can just talk a little bit about how CMT Digital structures its deals or forms its relationships a little bit different than your competitors. Yeah, I mean we like to engage. What we like to say to founders, we like to engage in any way that you kind of see best. Now, there are certain areas where we feel like our support can be more impactful than others. We can look to engage on kind of the trading side, looking at whether the token model makes sense to us, whether the trading strategy, the token strategy makes sense. I personally like engaging with the mechanism design piece whether it's protocol mechanism design whether it's a order matching engine um whether it's you know oracle robustness whatever it may be that's kind of where I like engaging with the founders super super early um just because I think there's so many different design choices you make at the beginning of a project and a lot of the time especially within blockchain systems you have to be very careful about those those design decisions because they're not immediately completely reversible. And so something like deepin where the token emissions are really an initial bootstrapping mechanism for the hardware and for the infrastructure I think it's super important to make sure that you have the balance of what you're willing to pay for that hardware on boarding in mind because that's going to be your emissions for the at least next few years for the project. And if that's too extractive, well then that leaves you with a situation that's not ideal when it comes to the, you know, incentive alignment in the long run. With deepen projects specifically, you know, incentive alignment is paramount when it comes to sustainability. So yeah, I I think leave it up to the founder, but engage where you think you can be most impactful. I think you're kind of leaning into one of my arguments for why VC is such a valuable part of the blockchain and web 3 space in general is the inherent knowledge and connections that you're able to help bring to a team. Um, especially like an early stage project that's trying to formulate all of this. But if you go on to crypto Twitter and you see a lot of anons, there's a lot of hate towards VCs. Maybe one of the reasons uh probably the biggest reason is this perception of access to uh early token allocations, pre-sale deals. And to many it can be seen as a lot of these deals are being made behind closed doors and that once the token hits the public market, the VCs are all going to collude and dump on us. And so that's kind of where this negative sentiment for the VC space in general from my perspective um as a neutral observer uh really does play out. So what is like the role that VC plays in to in in blockchain's development today in DAP development today and architecture today and if you could identify some of the negative perceptions what are the ways in which they might be airing towards a little bit of truth and what are the ways in which outsiders might just have it completely wrong &gt;&gt; I think it's also I mean first we should preface by saying that not every fund is going to look structurally the game. They're going to have different LPs. They're going to have different mandates, different ways of seeing the world and different timelines to realization. I think this is really important because so for example, we have a pretty long timeline, something like 7 years for uh our fund. And when we look at engaging with projects, it's not necessarily on an immediate kind of early liquidity basis. We're looking at kind of like a traditional exit in the sense that why would we be able to get out of this position in a favorable environment. You know, are they going to be able to find product market fit at the time where we vest? And I think those sort of questions are more important than when do we get access to liquidity? Because if you get access to liquidity and there's no one there on the other side, well then that doesn't really make sense. And ideally, you want protocol participants, whether they're on the supply or the demand side, to be on that receiving end. And part of the problem is the the project's liquidity cycles have been based around speculation and not adoption. And I think that's where the imbalance between the retail and the venture kind of markets can come in because retail is supposed to be adoption, but if retail is just farming, that's not real adoption. And so the token model won't really make sense. So I think it's about timelines to realization, kind of original pieces for engagement and timelines to realization from a fund level, but also looking at kind of what sort of environment will this token be launching into? Um, is it going to have product market fit yet? Will it make sense for the broader community? &gt;&gt; Do you think we're seeing adoption actually start to play out? I think for like Salana meme coins was adoption. You had to have soul in order to launch these meme coins. And is that the utopian future we were promised in these white papers that people were going to be trading shitcoins? No. But that was adoption. So, are we starting to see like real meaningful adoption start to take place? And it doesn't necessarily need to be like world changing. But I I do want to hear if like the the ticker is moving into the right direction moving into the right direction. I think the memecoin cycle is really just as a result of the same product market fit that crypto found back in 2021, which was speculation. DeFi, NFTTS, memecoins are all kind of going back to that same product of speculation. Now, I do think that we're seeing adoption when it comes to nonspeculative use cases, but the adoption curve is much slower. The adoption curve with speculation is fueled by this feedback loop of outsiz returns drawing more people in and so on and so forth. But the adoption cycle when we're looking at real world transformation, I think is different. And I do think some deep ends like Helium are starting to reach that adoption. I mean, being able to offload, I think is adoption. Whether or not that's the same level of adoption as speculation, probably not. But I have more faith in it being longerlasting than speculation. Now speculation will always be there and may always be the the primary product market fit for crypto projects but ultimately I think the incentive alignment or the the power of adoption within incentive alignment is is far more re broadreaching. Um it's just it's just harder to get adoption there. It it takes longer and it's not as a not as much of a hockey stick growth pattern. But I do think that that's where the sustainability comes from. for almost the entire time I've been in the space. I got in in 2017 and Ethereum to me always sounded nice on paper, you know, uh a programmable money, you know, smart contract functionality. And we saw, as you were just mentioning over the cycles, we've had this these speculative uh sort of bull cycles with NFTTS, with meme coinery, even with uh Foodcoin Summer and DeFi summer. And it wasn't until this year when for the first time ever, a realworld use case for the value that Ethereum as a network and maybe even ETH as an asset started to play out. And that was largely when Bitcoin or when Black Rockck launched its B fund. And we started to see these Tradfi institutions tokenize their assets. And now these assets are starting to live on Ethereum amongst other networks. But as we also start to talk about L2s and settling onto Ethereum, maybe as a data availability layer, um we're gonna possibly see the ship turning around of the L2s being a vampiric effect on Ethereum and the ETH asset itself. And as we have something like based rollups start to take effect where arbitum base maybe even future Fidelity chain JP Morgan chain they have their own L2s but they settle on and they leverage Ethereum as the security network. Are we moving to a place where Ethereum as a blockchain network as an L1 can start to provide a a real world use case for L2s can really start to drive actual activity that's a necessity and maybe even remove some of the speculation from ETH as an asset and are we entering a phase where ETH can have utility and maybe even just maybe because of market demands we can see uh supply demand cycles is pushing the price of ETH as an asset up because the market demands it for utility. &gt;&gt; Yeah, I think that's absolutely right, Dylan. I think ETH as an asset is changing fundamentally. So, I've wrote an op-ed on this actually, which should be going out in the next few weeks here. But in a way, Ethereum's already kind of won. It's become the de facto platform for asset issuance and onchain Binance and smart contract development. I mean, EVM is still Solidity is still in the lead there. Now, is it is it the best? You know, probably not, but it's it's got that market traction. It's it's got that adoption. It's got that buy in. It is heading towards a strange paradox in the sense that Ethereum is going to be everywhere, but it might not be the thing that anyone's excited about at any given point. And depending on your perspective, that's either its superpower or its biggest weakness. So I think yes, Ethereum is moving towards being a full just DA layer and I don't think that the road map is particularly shy about this either. I mean, the goal from what I can gather is to strip down the base layer to its bare essentials of things like finality, settlement, and data availability. And then the L2s, whether they're base rollups or whether they're optimistic roll-ups, hopefully not, whether they're ZK roll-ups, execution, state, uh, data, computation, everything is offloaded to these layer 2. And so the enabling technology I think is really lying in zero knowledge rollups. Um I think we're seeing the Ethereum foundation start to prepare for this as well. I mean the risk five framework that came out of so risk re framework that came out of Vitalik's proposal I think is indicative of that um kind of an environment where the base L1 is just proving. But I think the the this environment positions ETH as an asset in an interesting way because things start to look less certain for ETH as an asset. Post EIP 4844 and and blob space being introduced. We had this introduction of a separate lane of bandwidth dedicated for rollup data and they obviously made gas fees lower both for the user and for the roll-ups. But it it changes Ethereum's demand drivers I think pretty fundamentally. Blobspace has now created this new hard to price asset and the demand curves are pretty nent and unpredictable and so ether as an asset has started to change where before it used to capture I mean it still captures a lot of fees through EIP 1559 and gas fees but demand for transaction execution and blobsp space but the demand for blobsp space is going to have far less of an impact on the demand for ETH than demand for L1 execution directly. I mean, gas gas gas gas gas fees were pretty high, right, on the L1. And so, ETH as an asset needs to change. Does ETH look like a low volatility bond in the future with staking rewards? Are we going to price it off of the future staking rewards? Does it behave like AWS bandwidth where you want access to the bandwidth to be able to post onto L1? Does it even remain the centerpiece of Ethereum's economy? And I think these are the questions that ETH needs to answer um in the sense that how do they want the users to engage with ETH? What is ETH going to be representative of and what can ETH L1DA provide that others can't? What's kind of the feedback loop that keeps users coming back to ETH L1 DA as opposed to something like Celestia? I do think there's something there whether it's state reconstruction from the L1 uh for interoperability across different L2 environments where you have kind of a global state across all L2s. I don't know what it may be but I think there's something there to allow ETH DA to kind of pull forward. &gt;&gt; Yeah, that's kind of the thesis that I choose to be bullish on something similar to that. And as you brought up, EVM is kind of king right now and Solidity is king. So, ETH has Ethereum has this opportunity to kind of leverage all these side networks that are building on top of EVM and it can really act as kind of the unifying factor for them. But in 2021, I had this kind of modular versus monolithic argument internally and it feels like it's starting to reemerge in 2025, particularly as we saw a lot of success with Salana from gaining new developers, from gaining traction on new projects, from seeing projects leave other ecosystems and choosing to build on Salana. So we really now have once again this kind of emerging debate. Is it going to be a monolithic network that sort of takes off and and takes all or are we really going to see this value in modularity really start to take off? And in from my perspective, it can go either way. We can have these Tradfi guys building EVM L2s or we can have these kind of like large scale corporate entities choosing to build within a a monolithic Salana like entity blockchain network. So what's where do you view today in 2025 this debate between modular and monolithic? Is it even a thing? &gt;&gt; Well, I think in infrastructure design it is a thing but only in the sense that modular systems give you more composability. So yes Salana is largely a monolithic structure but even Salana I see moving towards more modular type systems. So earlier we saw network extensions coming out of Salana and and I would consider BAM like a bit of a continuation of that. I don't know if you're familiar with BAM the things that came up pretty recently. It was a GTO live stream where they were talking about uh BAM essentially BAM is new to Salana. Um but it's it's it's kind of in that same direction as network extensions you know Salana's version of layer twos in a way. Um, but I think that if institutions are getting involved with blockchains to the extent that they go with a monolithic system, if they want any sort of composability with their own existing systems without having to integrate everything or with their with other potential systems that could exist, they're going to need some modular infrastructure piece to make those two systems composable. And I just don't think that you have that same level of extensibility in fully monolithic systems. Now, does that distinction even exist anymore is a good question. I'm not sure, but I do think that institutions will always have to lean on these modular infrastructure pieces to fully achieve the goals of what they're trying to achieve. &gt;&gt; Zooming out, wrapping up, uh, final question. I I understand this might kind of like be a big I don't want to say curveball but but this is this is a big question. So looking back on your your experiences as a researcher from 2017 and drawing from all the promises that have been made each cycle and just like earning the cynicism for seeing what has worked and what has failed. I honestly feel like 95% of these dreams that were sold to us have failed and maybe 5% have stuck. Drawing on this experience and and still being here eight plus years, how how do we take the lessons we've learned since 2017 and apply them to maybe some heruristics for our five-year roadmap? and can you use these lessons learned to maybe create a five-year vision for where you think we're going to be as a blockchain industry in that time frame? And I know that's a big heady question, but I feel like as a researcher, you're going to bring some some fire. You know, every every cycle we were sold a dream. what 2013 Bitcoin is daily money uh going all the way to you know 24 agents AI agents but I don't think that they failed because they were wrong um but rather that they were premature or misaligned at the time and so I think one of the biggest takeaways for me personally has been number one tech alone is never enough you know what we can do on a technical basis and the market transformation that we can theoretically bring about bring about as a result of technical innovation is not everything we can't rely on the tech alone code is easy distribution is hard generally and so I think it's important to always think back to that I mean there are so many different examples that we can lean on if we look at the bridge wars for example like did tech win or did the distribution win I think the second piece is token doesn't necessarily mean product market fit either. You know, airdrops don't mean red retention. Yield doesn't necessarily mean utility. And so I think real usage or real PMF in crypto still should look like organic usage with aligned incentives. You know, stable coins in emerging markets, for example. Sure. Speculative markets um to the extent that people want to speculate. Yeah, I think being able to to to lean on product market fit outside of tokens um cycles I think also kill nuance like a dream is sold to us. people get behind this idea and they get behind it so much so quickly in such a short period of time but the narrative gets overfit with short-term speculation and I think that can kill the adoption life cycle that you know the best builders often do go through which is you know quiet during hype and uh reemerge with a product that is just superior to any other if I'm thinking about a 5-year road map or plan invest in things that make sense in a distributed fashion without a token first and a token could really accelerate the adoption. Tokens should enhance not you know justify the product. Um bet on products that can survive a you know US ban or a you know regulatory blowback. Um, while we might be in a favorable environment now, that may not always be the case. And so censorship resistance, I think, is important to not lose in the context of being compliant and and approved from a regulatory perspective. I do think that things like ZK compute do need to go through some level of acceleration for viability and and some level of adoption will rely on you know our ability to accelerate the viability of these technical pieces but I think that's just a function of time but I mean in short to try and answer your question instead of us promising another 10x without the learnings of the last decade I think the grounded vision for crypto should be it's not just financial infrastructure but it's digital public infrastructure something that's credibly neutral globally accessible and resilient to collapse and only on those sort of premises can you actually go through the Darwin cycles of applications dying and living and being able to survive in the long run because unless you have credibly neutral kind of globally accessible infrastructure to build it on it's not going to be a reality Um that's why I do think modular systems work well modular block space you know price like AWS bandwidth makes sense cuz it's about what are the building blocks of that future going to look like you know that's where a lot of the things like decentralized provenence identity for the login layer like we don't know what it's going to look like but we can take a guess looking at that future vision of what should that global public accessible infrastructure look like &gt;&gt; fantastic conclusion Arian If anybody listened to this and is excited to reach out to you or to CMT Digital, what's the best way they can contact you or reach out to the team? &gt;&gt; Yeah, you can just ping me on Telegram. I'm Persian Pariah. Uh I'm an immigrant from Iran originally, that's why. &gt;&gt; Awesome. Well, Arian, thank you so much for your time today. Um I had a blast. Thanks for for talking everything macro and policy and getting into the weeds of uh outlooks for for networks and architecture themselves. I really appreciate the time you spent with us. &gt;&gt; Thank you, Dylan. Likewise. Cheers. Cheers. &gt;&gt; Thank you so much for tuning in to the Smart Economy podcast. To stay in the loop with all of our latest episodes and insights, head over to www.smarteconomyodcast.com. And don't forget to subscribe to our YouTube channel for all of our video content. If you enjoyed today's discussion, please consider showing your support by liking, commenting, and reviewing this episode on your favorite podcasting platform. Your feedback helps us reach more listeners and bring even better content your way. We'd also love to hear from you. So, drop a comment on Spotify or YouTube to share what topics you'd like to cover us. We'd also love to hear from you. So, please drop a comment on Spotify or YouTube to share what topics you'd like us to cover or who you'd like to see as our next guest. And if you or someone you know would make for a great guest, don't hesitate to reach out. We're always looking for fresh voices and new perspectives. And for our NEO token holders out there, please consider voting for NEO news today as your council representative. We've proudly been serving the NEO ecosystem since 2017, and we'll continue to do so by putting portions of our council rewards directly back into ecosystem growth initiatives. So, with all of that said, thank you once again for listening to the Smart Economy podcast, and we look forward to catching you next time.