What's up everybody? Welcome to your daily digest for Thursday, May 22nd, where I bring you fact-based, non-sensational, objective information about what's going on in the broader blockchain and cryptocurrency space. Today, we are kicking off the Daily Digest with a bit of an ongoing issue. A Sooie DEX called Cedus um has been hacked. Currently, there's over $200 million in tokens of potential losses. Um, and the team behind an onchain moderating tool developed by cryptocyber security company Hackin has confirmed that at least 63 million of that 200 million has been bridged to Ethereum and that in a single transaction 20,000 ETH was transferred to a fresh wallet. Um, in addition to tokens on the decks, some such as former guest Lumbard staked Bitcoin LBTC or Axelcoin have lost a lot of their value, if not all of it on the DEX. Um, the top 15 losers all lost in excess of 3/4 of their token price. uh we can just see just massive amounts of losses here in these columns right now. Um though that being said the some of the tokens have seen a lot of their value also decrease offchain or well off of the decks. Um and others have been able to kind of recoup their value. Um, so outside of the Cedus decks, LBTC appears to have gained over 4% in value over the last 24 hours, whereas Axel has not been uh fortunate and has lost nearly 99.5% of its token value. Trump cryptozar David Sax says the stable coin bill is going to pass. as I covered yesterday, the late the earliest projection for the passing of the genius act is May 26. Um, and so, uh, David Saxs expects the stablecoin bill to clear Senate with bipartisan pack bipartisan backing. Uh he said, "We have every expectation that it's now going to pass following a key procedural vote that saw 15 Democrats join Republicans to clear the filibuster threshold of the Cloer vote. Um signaling that there is a lot of support on both sides of the aisle. The Dubai Regulator uh Dubai's virtual asset regulatory authority or VAR has released an updated rule book for virtual asset service providers operating in the region that gives market participants until June 19th to comply with new rules that allow them to onchain realworld asset tokens and clarify rules for issuers. Um Inreina Hever, partner at the United Arab Emirates based law firm Neoslogal Legal, told Cointelegraph that the updated rules clarify RWA issuance and distribution. She said issuing RWA tokens and listing them on secondary markets is no longer theoretical. It's now a regulatory reality in Dubai and the broader United Arab Emirates. Black Rockck's Bitcoin ETF continues to see inflows, notching a two-week high inflow as Bitcoin is nearing its own all-time highs. Um, IBIT's May 21st net inflows hit 536 530.6 million, the biggest single day net inflows since 531.2 million on May 5th. Uh, an an interesting thing to note, the Bitcoin ETF has not had an outflow since April 9th. Uh, moving on to other uh, financial institutions, VANC is launching a fund in the Avalanche ecosystem. The VANC purpose-built fund will be available only to accredited investors and aims to invest in liquid tokens and venturebacked projects across various different blockchain and web3 sectors including gaming, financial services, payments, and artificial intelligence. We haven't done this in a while. So, let's head over to the RWA.xyz XYZ platform and just kind of show the overwhelming growth of onchain RWAS particularly from January 1 this year starting at 15.7 billion moving up to uh the other day at 22.7 billion. Um, in the list of various different blockchain networks that support RWA, Avalanche is listed at number nine with $177 million in locked up assets on the protocol. So, this injection of VANC funds um is an interesting way to see how uh these different blockchain networks are going to attract different funds and different RWAs on chain. Um into our last two pieces of news. The jury has convicted ex Safeoon CEO on all charges which included um a conspiracy to defraud the United States, money laundering and wire fraud. Long story short, this has been um capital punishment season for purveyors of crime in the New York courts. uh where we also saw former Celsius CEO Alex Mashinsky um get sentenced to 12 years last week or two weeks ago at this point. Um and we also saw the same court sentence SPF to 25 years following a 2023 verdict. And lastly, the Texas House has passed the Bitcoin Strategic Reserve bill. If it's signed into law, the bill will allow Texas comproller to establish a Bitcoin reserve and invest in select cryptocurrencies based on market cap criteria. So, we are slowly moving towards a United States where various different states will have Bitcoin and crypto strategic reserves and maybe even the federal US government in the coming year or two. That just about wraps up everything that happened over the past 24 hours in the blockchain and cryptocurrency space. If you want to keep up to date with all of the daily digests as well as our weekly spaces on the Smart Economy podcast X page and our by monthly um podcast episode releases, then head over to our subreddit which is backsmart economy podcast and we will catch you tomorrow.