What's up everybody? Welcome to Crypto Talk and Blockchain Walkman. &gt;&gt; Hermanista. &gt;&gt; Yes. &gt;&gt; Talk in English. &gt;&gt; Okay. So, Herman is working on a really cool project that I caught the tail end of. So, could you just tell us what EVVM is? &gt;&gt; EVVM is virtual state blockchains inferral that can be deployed on any chain as smart contracts. is like having your own blockchain without notes. &gt;&gt; So you said that you started working on this in quiet in silence three years ago because you saw where we were going to be today. Where are we today and what did you see three years ago? Well, three years ago uh during an event that is called it global h I hear Vitalik that was leading the directions of Ethereum saying that in the future we should not consider gas as a problem because we'll be extremely cheap. So uh thinking about scalability and what happen in web two like we have first dedicated servers then we start balancing and sharing infra like virtual private servers and then the cloud. I I said okay we need this also for blockchains. So we start creating uh virtualization of blockchains on a smart contracts what it means execution uh that will be cheap. So now uh L2s, L3s, upchains, subnets and all these kind of configurations could be deployed on chain on Ethereum. So we share the infra of Ethereum. We support it even more because we are using it and the balancing will be something automatic and at the end of the day we are going to have the blockchain as a cloud chain. &gt;&gt; Okay. So you say that today your your main users that you're seeing are banks. Is this sort of like a a dystopian use case or are you happy to be seeing this type of user using EVVM? &gt;&gt; I think it's good for banks because banking is an example a clear example of I have my customers. I I need to profit from them and I have to give them some benefits and maybe also by loyalty that is also very very common in banks. They will give more advantage to their uh customers than to other people. So imagine that now uh we have a a talk in in New Jersey in the Linux Foundation decentralized trust that was given by entity data uh which uh with them we have an agreement of working with banks that we deploy in Hyperledger Visu that is um a private blockchain uh a consortium of banks blockchains. So this this private uh blockchain shared by them they had to deploy some infra they wanted this configuration had an EVVM for each one. So now they have their customers using their own private blockchain with their own products with their own tokens. Each one of these is communicated between them with the uh permissioned products with different maybe fairs different guilds for for investing one to another. Mhm. &gt;&gt; And they are connected through um through a permissionless deterministic bridge to mainet. &gt;&gt; Awesome. &gt;&gt; So there is an EVVM treasury deployed on Ethereum. Now it's on test net because this was a um approved yet to to be on mainet. Uh and they can access and offer their products to every user on the ecosystem. So these users will be buying products from the banks. They will be also depositing liquidity for other different benefits and at the end of the day uh this is possible thanks to EVBM. &gt;&gt; Awesome. Okay. So we're here at ETH Boulder. Are you here for ETH Denver as well? &gt;&gt; Yes, of course. We are going to have two workshops at ET Denver. uh one tomorrow a talk uh in the scaling and privacy on Ethereum event and uh in the X 402 event also a an agendic on EVVM workshop and then we will be in the main event in the Akindo and Buffyorn pitchfest rising capital invest in us we are on preede &gt;&gt; awesome um what's your general sense of what Ethereum Ethereum Boulder is like how are you enjoying the event and what's something that you're really you're really enjoying about Ethereum Boulder &gt;&gt; I think the proximity that we can have uh between each other uh in the conversations like this that we are having now is something very cool. Uh this this is possible in other events let's be fair but not as much as here. Here people is very relaxed. It's very open to to listen to tell you what they are doing. There is no rush. Uh it's it's very the compressing to be here. &gt;&gt; Uh no pressurey in any mean. So I think it's it's a good place for come if you are building if you are curious uh and if you want to to learn. &gt;&gt; It's not it's not a party event. It's not a a place where you will say, "Okay, let's go park." No, no, this is not this is for builders trying to to build. &gt;&gt; And I think that just kind of highlights why this event is so great. I saw the end of your talk at a very small conversation, a very intimate conversation, and you get to connect with other people who will provide insights into what you're building. &gt;&gt; Yes. Yes. Of course. and and bring ideas uh also give you some some advice some directions if you are looking for it there is very very valuable people everybody's valuable but here they are also &gt;&gt; Edmon where can people go learn about EVVM and where can people go follow you &gt;&gt; uh they can follow me onx is are you talking to me is my my my handle uh it's difficult so better if you go and and enter into evvm.info to get all the information about thevm. We have evvs libraries. We have a scaffold EVVM. We have every a CLI deployer ready to use and and have your own EVVM in five minutes. You will pay less than a dollar of gas in an L2, less than $5 on on mainet. Uh do it with with a lot of careful and enjoy it. Ciao. &gt;&gt; Ciao.