GM everybody. We're at episode one of Crypto Talk and Blockchain Walk. &gt;&gt; Episode zero. &gt;&gt; Episode zero where we talk the talk with your favorite builders who walk the walk. &gt;&gt; I'm honored to be one of y'all's favorite builders. What's up everybody? I'm Willy Wonka if we haven't met. &gt;&gt; Nice. So that's my first question. Who are you? What do you do? &gt;&gt; My name is Willy Wonka. I've been building uh several projects in the web 3 space and before that in the web two space. So serial builder. always considered myself a product first founder and um just this past week I started a new role as head of product at Venice which is awesome and uh it's also interesting because at the same time this past two weeks we launched the the new version of this platform we've been building for two years uh it's called blank.space space and it's a launchpad where any community can deploy their own customizable Farcaster client which can be the homepage and the hub for the community. It's not just a website but it's a mini app and it's a platform where the community members can log in uh post and engage with content and fully customize their own profile using the same customizability tools that are available for community managers to customize the whole platform. Basically like a WordPress uh community platform builder on top of Farcaster. &gt;&gt; Awesome. So I have a question. Right now we're in the midst of a third crypto winter since I've been in the space since 2017. &gt;&gt; My third as well. Yep. &gt;&gt; Nice. So why are you still here? &gt;&gt; Well, I still believe, you know, the the reasons that I got into the space in the first place haven't changed. And if anything, like we're actually delivering on that vision that at one point back in 2017 seemed amazing, but also seemed like a little bit of a fantasy and certainly wasn't certain. Like at this point, I have no doubt that eventually the masses and all of these AI agents are going to come on chain. um and that that's going to be one of the most beneficial things for society uh that anyone could imagine right now. I think financial sovereignty um and really the decentralized web is what got me excited at in the first place. Those values haven't changed whatsoever. But yeah, it's a it's too bad that the the price isn't reflecting that, but at the same time, it's just a great time to lock in and build. &gt;&gt; Do you think community sentiment is a reflection of price? &gt;&gt; Well, it's interesting. Uh it depends on kind of what community you're thinking about. So, uh I'm part of the builder community and I think the builder community uh while certainly the vibes shift um the mission doesn't change and if anything you can have less distractions uh to build and um we know that there will be another bull market. So, I'm sure that when the bull market comes a lot of the the builders like me are going to wish that we actually had a little bit more time to prepare for it, right? But then yeah when you uh talk about the broader community then I think for sure the morale the sentiment um the interest all really takes a heavy hit when uh when we enter these bare markets especially when after this last cycle I don't know if you were like me but like we were we all were very bullish and thought that we were going to the moon and that didn't really happen. uh which I think can be really exhausting for people like you and I who have been in this space for many cycles and um and still are are waiting basically uh for the dream to be realized. So it's tough but um I still love coming to these conferences and I think I even enjoy them more during the bare market because it really is just the people who are there because they believe in the the values and the mission and they're not just there for the upside. &gt;&gt; Absolutely. Before we talk about the conference, one last thing. Do you think the first billion users on chain are going to be more comprised of humans or AI agents? &gt;&gt; At this point, I actually think it's going to be AI agents. Yeah, I think the first billion active addresses, I think the majority of them will be AI agents, but we'll see. Um, I really and I I really hope that we can get more people on chain before that happens. Um, and it's honestly one of the concerns I have about the space is the negative like perception that a lot of people outside of the crypto community have about our industry. I think that uh that concerns me because I really think everyone should come on chain. I think the sooner they can do that, the better. And uh yeah, I think that people should front and run all these agents that are about to come on chain because once that happens, there's there's no going back. &gt;&gt; So, we're here at ETH Boulder. Why are you at ETH Boulder, &gt;&gt; man? Uh well, I love coming to Ethereum conferences. Ethereum community is my favorite community. I get to see friends like you and catch up. Um but Boulder is also one of my favorite cities in the world. I went to school here and lived here for many years. And uh so it's a beautiful town. It's a great place to come back and visit. And um yeah, I I love going to these conferences because you basically get to hang out with a bunch of your friends. You meet awesome really cool people and you do it in an amazing location like Boulder. So there's nowhere else I'd rather be in the world right now than than Eth Boulder. &gt;&gt; So ETH Boulder is the event that's kind of piggybacking. I guess it's piggy fronting off of ETH Denver. I'm glad that they're close to each other and not overlapping because it would have been hard to choose. &gt;&gt; What do you think is going to be the biggest differentiator between the vibes at ETH Boulder versus the vibes we're going to have at ETH Denver? &gt;&gt; Well, Eth Boulder's a lot smaller and ETR is going to be huge. So, um because it's gotten so large, it's hard at ETHRE to not only just see everybody that you want to see, but then actually have good conversations and like have time to catch up with them. A lot of the stuff at ETB is like, "Oh, hey, great to see you. All right, I'll see you later." And then you never see them again. Whereas in Boulder, you get time to go on walks and really catch up and talk about what you're building, learn about what the other person's building, share ideas. So, um, yeah, I think we're going to have a lot more deeper conversations u here at ETH Boulder. Not to say ETH is not going to be amazing and I love them too and appreciate everything they do and the fact that it's a free conference and I'm sure there's going to be some awesome sit in parties. Um, and yeah, I I think um another really cool thing about East Denver is the hackathon and so I'll probably spend a lot of my time there just just building stuff in the hackathon uh dungeon. &gt;&gt; Sweet. Where can uh we send people to learn more about what you're working on? &gt;&gt; So, uh right now you can go to nounspace.com to view this platform that we built for the Nouns community. That's like our flagship space system. And if you like what you see there and you're interested in having one of those for your own community, uh you can go to blank.space. Right now it's a wait list but um it is live in alpha so we're inviting communities from the wait list. So far they're all having a very great positive experience. So that's encouraging and um yeah it's it's available for free right now. We're just making sure everything works smoothly before we open the floodgates. So link.space. You can also find me on Farcaster or Twitter as Willy Wonka. &gt;&gt; Nice. Thanks Willie. &gt;&gt; Thanks y'all. Have the best day. Peace.