All right, we're at Crypto Talks and Blockchain Walks, the seated edition, and we're here with Humpty. Um, Humpty's pretty cool. We had lunch yesterday. So, let's just start with why Humpty and what are you doing here? &gt;&gt; Uh, well, I'm here because I heard that ETH Boulder was going to be something new with people that I've known for a very long time that are doing really cool stuff in crypto that are trying to make a positive impact in the world. So, that's the first reason why I showed up to support those people. &gt;&gt; Do you feel like we were talking earlier before we hit the record and that there's something different here &gt;&gt; and I asked you if you thought that we're getting what you thought you were going to get. It's a little bit chaotic. &gt;&gt; It's a little bit pieced together, but it also feels like there's a connective tissue. &gt;&gt; Yeah. &gt;&gt; So, what was what was your expectation coming into this event and how has it lived up to that? So, as we were talking, I said I was expecting chaos. Uh, but I was expecting the chaos to be intentional, but also the people that were here were going to be the folks who were going to have a part in finding some sense in that chaos. And we're all going to pull on threads that are going to make this something special in the future. And I think the number of people that have showed up that were here yesterday being Friday, today, Saturday, I just feel like it's all high quality people that care um and that also believe that like crypto could do better. &gt;&gt; Yeah. Um you're not based out of the Colorado blockchain Denver region. What are you doing in LA? what's like your blockchain mission, where you're at, and how are you bringing that here? &gt;&gt; Uh, well, in LA, I host several meetups. So, I bring the community together around different topics and interests, but always trying to help people understand how crypto and even decentralized social can help them create a community and for creators specifically monetize their content through. And so you're here with what? N you're with Nouns here, right? &gt;&gt; I'm here uh with onchain creators, but nouns has been a big part of the work that we've done since last year and we're telling the story of E Boulder through the lens of Nouns. &gt;&gt; Cool, cool, cool. Um are you going to E Denver? &gt;&gt; I am. All right. Um what are you excited about from E Denver that you think you got out of the way here? And and I'll preface this question. Why I said it like that? I thought that coming to ETH Boulder, we would be able to have these more one-on-one deeper connections and ETH Denver is going to offer the breadth. So, that's what I'm excited about with E Boulder is getting that depth out of out of the way. I hate to say it like that, but that's what excites me about E Denver. I don't have to like struggle to have that now. So, what's something that you've been fulfilled with here that's going to open you up for Eat Denver? I would even say that it's not even about getting it out of the way. I feel like it's the best way to start this trip is in a meaningful way with people like I said that really care about making the space better and help crypto uh create a better system uh you know around the world. Um, in terms of like what I'm looking forward to at East Denver, I'm actually not quite sure too if it's going to be as large as it's been in the past. So, I would be looking forward to like a much larger group of people that I can interact with. I do always find a way to like bring down the people that I talk to into like a much smaller group so I can have those meaningful conversations. Um, but yeah, I don't even know if that's going to be possible in Denver. I think it's going to be smaller than what we expect. &gt;&gt; Right. Right. Right. Are you like bringing anything back to your community in LA from this or are you still in the moment enjoying everything and not even thinking about what's next? &gt;&gt; Yeah. I mean, I think that what I'm taking back is that storytelling is such a big piece of where we're going next with crypto. &gt;&gt; Yeah. I think the large institutions in crypto have realized that their storytelling techniques suck and it hasn't really done enough to change the minds of the masses. So creators who are who I speak to are super talented individuals who can work craft and tell a story in a way that connects, you know, at a very personal level. And so if anything, I'm going back and saying there is a huge demand for creators to step in and start to kind of weave these stories and l and that this lore that can actually connect crypto to you know the masses but again in a very focused way because every creator speaks to a different audience and I think that's super special and important. &gt;&gt; Totally. Totally. Um what what are we doing here in this room right now? &gt;&gt; What's about to happen? Uh, we're about to see Mittens, uh, Chain Breaker, I think that was its name, and Danny Devito go at it. These are some robots. They're going to, I think, do some mixed martial arts style stuff. Wild. &gt;&gt; Are you going to be gambling on them? &gt;&gt; Uh, I don't even know. There's a whiteboard. Again, this is a weird thing to do in crypto where we have like an agent in our Telegram chats, prediction markets that we can spin up really quickly, and we're using a whiteboard. So, I think I'm gambling. I'm not quite sure how that's going to look like, though. &gt;&gt; Humpty's got a really interesting background and a really interesting connection of providing um power, empowerment to the individual creator. but you've also spent a lot of time in like bigger also nonblockchain realms. So, if anybody's watching this and wants to learn more about who you are, what you're doing, what's the best way that they can find you? &gt;&gt; You know, I'm trying to grow my Instagram because I've uh spent a lot of time uh talking on on X Twitter. So, on on that platform, I'm Humpty0X. But on Instagram again, I think it's a more visual format and the type of people that I'm trying to uh connect with and participate in this ecosystem that they were growing together are all those platforms. So find me on Instagram at Humpty0X. There you go. Thanks for your time, man. Cool, man. Appreciate it. Cheers. is ready to be bet