What's up everybody? Welcome to your daily digest for Wednesday, May 21st, 2025, where I bring you fact-based, non-sensational, objective information about what's going on in the broader blockchain and cryptocurrency space. Excuse the lapse in videos as I was away in Toronto for Consensus 2025, repping the NEO booth at the cryptocurrency conference. Let's kick this week off. In crypto news, Hong Kong has passed a stablecoin bill which is set to open licensing by year end. These guys were talking about this in October 23 when I was in Hong Kong for the first time when they wanted to tokenize US debt instruments and onboard the stable coins into the regional area and companies that could use the stable coins. In a May 21st post on X, the Legislative Council said that it is expected that by the end of this year, major institutions will be able to apply to the Hong Kong Monetary Authority to become licensed stable coin issuers. Moving on, in stable coin news, the Genius Act recently made it past Cloer in the Senate, which allows senators to vote on whether they want to approve the Genius Stablecoin Act and or not. Um, and it passed in a 66-32 procedural vote on May 20th and is now heading to debate on the Senate floor. The bill will seek to set clear rules for stable coin collateralization and mandate compliance with AML laws. This is a big deal. It will be the first pro-c crypto legislation put forth in the US since crypto has become a bipartisan issue uh in the coming in the recent years. Guatemala's largest bank has integrated blockchain for crosschain for crossber payments. This is largely one of the killer use cases that blockchain offers the rest of the world. Currently in the US, if you want to send remittances to other countries, you have to use an outdated service provider like um uh TransUnion, I believe. No, Western Union. That's it. Sorry. And Western Union just takes a lot of fees. If you're sending $100 in USD to another part of the world, sometimes Western Union could take up to 20 or $30 in fees, which is 20 to 30% of the money that's being sent. So now Guatemala's banks are leveraging blockchain for crosschain for crossborder payments. Um, Banco Industrial has integrated crypto service provider Sukup Pay into its mobile banking app, allowing locals to more easily receive remittance is powered by blockchain. The infra the Suku pay infrastructure has been fully embedded inside the Ziggy payment app, allowing Guatemalans to receive funds from the US instantly for a 99 cent flat fee. In addition to Guatemala, the bank also has operations in Andura, Panama, e El Salvador, the SEC has once again delayed its decisions, this time on ether staking and XRP ETFs as analysts had previously expected. The SEC on May 20 said on May 20th that it needed to extend its decision on Bitwise's application for the ETF stake ETH staking by 45 days to consider the proposed rule change and issues raised their N. The issue was required to decide or punt its decision by May 22nd. Um and now they're going to have almost all of these filings uh will have a due date by October. So by October of this year, we should hear whether the SEC wants to move forward with these ETFs and or once again punt. Crime season is over. The SEC has charged Uniccoin crypto platform with over $100 million in fraud. Um, the SEC said on May 28th that it charged the CEO, board members, and former investment chief with misleading over 5,000 investors about certificates that conveyed rights to receive Uniccoin tokens and stock. Um, this is awesome. Uh we're we're finally seeing that the SEC is going after real criminals and not sending wells notices to good actors like Coinbase, Kraken, and others who are trying to abide by what other whatever gray murky waters the SEC has given in terms of regulatory guidance. Um, lastly in SEC news, uh, Paul Atkins, the SEC chair, recently went in front of Congress for one of his first times since becoming the SEC chair and basically said that the SEC will be having something in the next few months with proposed steps forward. uh which he referred to the cryptotask force's first report. So we could start seeing in as little as a few months the first set of clear regulatory guidelines that have been put forth by the crypto task force. And lastly, New York City Mayor Eric Adams has launched a crypto advisory council on the heels of him stating that he wants New York to become the crypto capital of the globe. The group will set forth uh policy recommendations in the coming weeks. And um that he wants to leverage blockchain technology for more than just security capabilities, but also for things like issuing birth certificates and death records. um so that New Yorkers can identify their next ofkin when it comes to uh estate issues that comes with what happens when people pass away. Sadly, in addition to Mayor Adams talking about New York wanting to become the crypto capital of the world, um New York state lawmakers also introduced several bills earlier this year to regulate crypto. Um, and additionally, uh, a bill to allow the state's financial law to allow New York state agencies to accept crypto as a payment. Um, we've been able to pay taxes using cryptocurrencies here in Colorado for the past couple years, and less than 100 people have actually paid their taxes with crypto in the past two years. But that's neither here nor there. Anything that's a positive step in the right direction of leveraging this technology so that people can use it to make payments is a step in the right direction. Well, that just about wraps up everything that happened over the past day in the broader blockchain and crypto space. If you want to keep up to date with what's happening on the daily digest or our bimonthly podcast episodes or our weekly spaces, head over to our subreddit backsmarteconomy podcast to keep up to date with what's going on. With all that said, I look forward to catch you tomorrow. Cheers.