GM everyone. Welcome to your daily digest for Thursday, April 24th, 2025, where we bring you fact-based, non-sensational, objective information about what's going on in the broader blockchain and cryptocurrency space. Today, we are kicking off with crime season and people having their penalties and punishments doowled out. Prosecutors are seeking over six years of prison for Mango Markets exploiter Avi Eisenberg. AI Eisenberg um performed a flash loan exploit uh on the Mango markets in 2022 which saw $110 million being stolen from platform users. Um and though he has returned uh 67 million of the funds um there's still a large outstanding number that he has not returned. So, I'm not sure he's going to get a ton of leniency, but we will see. Sticking with crime and punishment, US prosecutors have filed over 200 victim statements in Alex Mashinsk's case over the Celsius centralized borrow and lend platform issues. Um, a lot of these statements basically shared people's experience with losing their life savings on Celsius, but some of them also sought leniency for Mashinsky. Um, the lawyers for Mashinsky are pleading that he should get no more than one year and one day in prison, but that remains to be seen. The LAPD have recovered $2.7 million worth of Bitcoin miners stolen in an airport airport heist. These miners were supposed to be on their way to Hong Kong where authorities claimed a pair of prominent members of a South American crime ring tied to the theft and sale of stolen goods around Los Angeles were captured. Um, in addition to the mining rigs that were stolen, uh, there was also $1.2 $22 million of stolen tequila, clothing, shoes, speakers, coffee, body wash, and pet food. So, um, this is an interesting heist story that it's nice to see that all that equipment was recovered. Uh, moving on. Uh, Shaquille O'Neal, Shaq, anyone who grew up in the 90s watching basketball knows Shaq fondly has reached a settlement in the FTX lawsuit, though the terms remained secret, so we don't know how much money he will be paying back. Though, uh, Shaq also settled recently um, in terms of an astral NFT project that he shilled. Uh, he had to pay $1 million in that settlement. Um, so Shaq is not having a great time with his recent crypto endorsements. Speaking of thefts, in good news, ZKYNC has recovered the $5 million of stolen tokens after the hacker accepted a bounty offer. Um, where he got to keep or she 10% in bounty and return and and where he returned 90% of the stolen tokens. after the 5 million tokens and ZK tokens were stolen, uh, the price actually went up for those tokens. So, the team actually got $5.7 million in value back. So, congratulations to the ZK Sync team, and well done on you, Hacker, for for turning Grey Hat into White Hat. New Hampshire bill, uh, the New Hampshire Bitcoin Reserve bill is heading to full Senate vote. Um it passed a 4 to1 vote in the Senate committee. Uh after going through through House um if the bill is approved by the Senate, then it will need to be signed into legislation by the governor. So keep up to date with what's going on on the following US Bitcoin state reserve bills uh via this account, Bitcoin Laws. Pretty great account. Um, in other US state news, Alabama is dropping its staking lawsuit against Coinbase. So now, out of the 10 states that raised a lawsuit against Coinbase in 2023, five of them have dropped it. And of course, if you've been keeping up with the Daily Digest, Oregon is actually a state that is doubling down on suing the S uh Coinbase. So nice to see um some progress at the state level, but you know there's also still some conress. Um the president of America has announced utility for the Trump shitcoin, I mean memecoin that he launched earlier this year. Uh the top 220 holders will be able to attend a dinner that Trump is hosting. Um, as we can see, the Trump memecoin launched right around his inauguration and saw a rapid peak and then has just been down only up until yesterday where there was a nice little tick upwards. In yesterday's daily digest, we talked about Kelsier Labs and their uh affiliation with Trump and Melania tokens. Kelsier recently had the uh a a class action lawsuit in the state of New York brought against them. So not looking good for them, but this is one of the tokens that they were associated with and we saw Trump jump 52% yesterday after this announcement. Um Justin Sun or Sun uh is a is a user on HTX and of course Sun Justin Sun is an investor in HTX. Um, this account labeled Sun on HTX holds 1.2 million Trump tokens worth around $14.5 million. So, it's widely speculated that Justin Sun is among the 220 that will be attending this dinner. Now, let's finish on some good news. Um, Soul Strategies is a Canadian investment company and they've issued $500 million in convertible notes following the Micro Strategy playbook to buy and stake Salana tokens. Um they join upexi which recently disco disclosed a $100 million raise to build a soul reserve and uh the defi development corporation which recently rebranded from Janover also announced a $42 million raise in order to establish a salana treasury. So the micro strategy and bitcoin uh playbook is now expanding to salana. Um, in fun deepin news, former guest of the Smart Economy podcast, Helium has partnered with AT&amp;T where AT&amp;T users will automatically connect to the Helium network when they come into proximity with a hotspot. So, in addition to AT&amp;T, now Helium connects with the T-Mobile network. So, it's really nice to see um a cryptonnative project that's been around for over a decade uh starting to make endroads with largecale enterprise telos. And lastly, Etherfi, a DeFi platform within the Ethereum ecosystem, has announced plans to la expand into the US and launch a DeFi bank, which will be some sort of hybrid NEO bank. Um, that will allow users to have alternatives to brickandmortar banks. Um the details for what this will exactly entail hasn't really been hashed out, at least according to the Blockworks um article that was released, but still interesting nonetheless to see a DeFi native platform focusing on addressing a market and providing banking like features. So, if you appreciated what went on in today's Daily Digest, please head over to our subreddit, Smart Economy Podcast, where you can keep up to date with all of our daily digests. You can see the sources for each website I used in today's overview. You can also keep up with our bi-weekly podcasts and our weekly spaces. Of course, if you appreciated this video, please don't hesitate to hit that heart button and slap me with a follow. Oh no, I forgot to go. Oh, and if you made it to this, you saw me gaff because I thought I was not showing the web pages. But thank you so much for following me on this journey as I figure out what the heck I'm doing. Cheers.