What's up everybody? Welcome to your daily digest for Tuesday, April 22nd, 2025, where I bring you fact-based, nonensational, objective information about what's happening in the blockchain and cryptocurrency space. Today, we are kicking off the Daily Digest with Paul Atkins being confirmed and sworn in as the SEC chair. The confirmation took a little bit longer than normal because there were several financial disclosures that he needed to file as a result of marrying into a billionaire family. But he is in and now we can get a little bit excited for the libertarian leaning SEC chair. Um there are about 70 crypto-related ETFs applications that need to be decided on this year according to Bloomberg uh as of reporting for April 21st. And I just want to note a caveat. While we are all excited to have Paul Atkins in the SEC chair, let's not forget that we were all really excited about Gary Gendler because if you go back to his MIT discussions, the guy clearly knew what was going on with blockchain and crypto and that turned out to be a disaster. Speaking of disasters, the Oregon Attorney General has doubled down on its lawsuit against Coinbase and it is also pointed out several different cryptocurrencies and tokens that they believe to be securities including avalanche unis swap near and wrapped Luna but not Luna itself. So, I'm not sure what to make of this, but it just looks like a continuation of the holdover from a Democrat-led SEC. And Oregon, a very left-leaning state here in the US, is doubling down on the former administrations and former SEC chairs actions. The Ripple RLUSD stablecoin is now live on a v3 on the Ethereum mainet. RLS RLUSD is Ripple's stable coin and now it lives on both Ethereum and Ripple. Uh I just kind of want to point out real quick this is the stable coin chart that shows 227.23 billion in total market cap for stable coins and the overwhelming majority as we can see here are USDT and USDC. though over the past month or so RLUSD has continued to increase from uh let's see uh 130 million on March 6 to around 293 million as of today. So that's something to keep an eye on as the competition for the stable coin market continues to grow. spot. Bitcoin ETFs witnessed $381 million of inflows in the past day, which marks the largest daily inflow since January 30th. Um, and we can also see at the time of recording that there might be a little bit of decoupling as Bitcoin continues to rise and equities and stock markets are facing a little fear, uncertainty, and doubt. Now into some negative news. Ethereum ETFs are hitting record low asset under management as outflows have topped 1.1 billion over the past 7 weeks. Um and though ETH as an asset is kind of holding on right now to its stableish price around $1600, we've seen um a lot of money flowing out of the ETH ETFs. And so one of the reasons for this might be um as we just saw a lot of money flowing into the Bitcoin ETFs, there's a clear narrative. Bitcoin is a digital gold. However, ETH has a more complex value proposition as a network token and it is probably contributing to investor hesitancy because you can't give a single line statement for what ETH is. Is it digital gold? Is it a global marketplace? Is it an unstoppable computer? Is it ultrasound money? It still hasn't really doubled down and found its narrative, and this might be hard for Wall Street to gro. Additionally, Galaxy Digital has swapped $106 million worth of ETH for Salana as Ether dominance continues to go down. Ether dominance is hovering around 7% right now. I believe it's um its high was around 47% or 43%. Um, and this is just kind of endemic of what is happening to the ETH asset right now. Uh, we saw Galaxy swap out 65,600 ETH and withdraw 752,240 soul from Binance according to Arkham data. This is uh counterintuitive to what is actually happening on the Ethereum blockchain. As we can see, $126 billion dollars of stable coins are minted on Ethereum. When we look at treasuries, $4.3 billion of treasuries are living on Ethereum, as well as things like commodities, institutional funds, and private credit. So, I'm not quite sure what's happening with the Ethereum narrative right now or what's happening with the ETH asset, but the the asset price go down, but Ethereum activity go up. Um, sticking with Salana good news, ARC has added two staked Salas to its tech ETF portfolio and it's leveraging the staked Salana ETFs from the Canadian stock market. And Salana is also seeing one of its large problem uh large projects in deepin uh Helium former guest in the smart economy podcast is hitting all-time highs for its decentralized physical infrastructure network activity. Um the DAO participation via mobile mobile token validator onboarding and usesbased rewards are at all-time highs and some major protocol milestones include expanding 5G mobile coverage to over 4,500 radios across 2,000 US cities. And um this is driving real world traffic to Helium mobile's $20 a month unlimited plans which are sold over in over 3,000 Walmart stores across the US. So this is uh along with RWAS, I think deep pin is a narrative that will slowly continue to keep growing throughout 2025. In bad news for Salana, uh Meteora is a DEX on the Salana ecosystem um and ABC firm. And this is uh there's a second class action lawsuit in New York that's being filed against Meteora Labs, Meteora, Kaiser Labs, and individuals that misrepresented the meme token. I think the thing to to pay attention to here and uh to to squint and read between the lines is Kaiser Labs and Meteora have been associated with a bunch of meme coins that have risen dramatically and then fallen super quickly including the Trump and Melania tokens, the Libra scamcoin that was launched by uh in conjunction with um the Argentine president as well as Hakua Girls Hawk token. So, keep an eye out for lawsuits that are going to be falling on uh maybe Meteora, but but in particular Kelsier Ventures because this is the firm that's been associated with a ton of pump and dumps this year and last year. And lastly, let's finish on some good news. Onchain activity. Polygon NFTts are starting to see an increase in network activity. They recently surpassed NFT activity on Ethereum L1. Um the Polygon based NFT market saw a surge of 20% in sales over the past 7 days. And we can just see the networks with NFT sales by volume. Um uh for Polygon 22.3 million, Ethereum 19.2, 2, Mythos 14.3, the Bitcoin ecosystem 14.1 million, and then Salana was 7.3 million. So, I'm not going to sit here and say that uh NFTTS are back, but it's really interesting to see that it was an RWA NFT collection that pushed Polygon's network activity up over the past couple days. Um, and it was in conjunction with a project called Courtyard, which is an RWA marketplace for physical card collections. So, you can uh buy Pokemon cards, baseball cards, basketball cards, and own an NFT that represents that physical card. And then if you want that card in your possession, you can actually um redeem the physical you can redeem the physical card by burning the NFT and you will get the physical card and that NFT will no longer be traded on the marketplace. So that just about wraps up today's daily digest. If you want to keep up to date with what is going on in the smart economy podcast landscape, head over to reddit.comr/smarteconomy podcast to keep up to date with our daily digests, with our podcast episodes, as well as our weekly spaces. With all that said, looking forward to catching you tomorrow. Cheers.