Kind: captions Language: en Crypto talk and blockchain walk. &gt;&gt; Let's do it. &gt;&gt; After a nice little relaxing session on the bean bags, &gt;&gt; much needed. &gt;&gt; Have you been finding yourself walking around and talking to everybody today? &gt;&gt; Definitely. Yeah, it's it's not as busy as yesterday, but still a lot of people at East Denver. &gt;&gt; Yeah. So, we have Ashton here. How would people know about you if they don't already? &gt;&gt; They've probably seen some interviews or videos of me on my YouTube channel. We've done over 1500 videos since 2014 from one blockchain protocol or another scrolling X or on YouTube seen the videos. &gt;&gt; Um I guess like before we get into what's going on here with for an OG content creator, this is what like your fourth cycle now &gt;&gt; I guess. So yeah, if you do every four years, 3 to four years, starting in 2014 when the market cap of the entire crypto industry was not even as big as one altcoin, uh if you survive past then to the 2017 cycle and then two more crashes, three if you count the one we're in right now, depending on your view of the market, &gt;&gt; we're in a crash. Yeah. &gt;&gt; So yeah, three crashes plus the beginning, we're into the fourth cycle here. So, I think like the number one thing that I want to know from you selfishly is how do you keep the the drive for wanting to be here? Every cycle we see charlatans come about. We see the next blockchain project that's going to revolutionize everything and then 95% of the time, everything fails. The narrative is never different. We see familiar faces come and go. We see people who made it who shouldn't have. What like is your why? What's your drive? Why are you still here after all these years? Any startup is going to go through adversity. You look at the the dot days 90 you know or any power law of any portfolio 90% of projects die or 95%. You know, it you could give the same question to like Jeff Bezos from Amazon. &gt;&gt; You know, it's like why are you continuing to do this when bubble is popped now? Okay, now we're the largest company in the world cuz we believed in the internet and we believe in blockchain technology as the next version of the internet and the next version of money. Combining that together with the financial industry is inevitable. It's just a matter of doing it properly and in the right time. And of course, it's not going to happen overnight. Just as the dot bubble took 10 plus years for all the companies to try and die and then eventually the use cases get worked out. Now with the rise of AI, we're seeing the next level of technology integration into the world. And a lot of people at ETH Denver are talking about AI agents. Yeah. And you know, some of the smart ones are talking about what about the payment infrastructure for physical AI, for physical robots, the X42. &gt;&gt; Yes. &gt;&gt; And these other ways that how are we going to pay? They're not going to the agents not going to have a bank account and be like only operating 9 to5, you know, it's going to be through crypto and it's just a matter of getting that. That's what's one of the things they're working on right now. So it's everything takes time and we under we understand that yeah there's going to be trials and tribulations. There's going to be overvaluations of companies and hype and an S-curve for adoption that's been known much before crypto. So it's just the natural progression of things. &gt;&gt; Yeah, totally. Um I guess uh there's a two-part question coming here. What first excited you about crypto that you're still excited about today? &gt;&gt; Well, that's it's a good question because I think one of the major frustrations that everyone has is being able to send money whenever they want and owning it yourself is obviously a good thing and it's nice to have, but trying to send money to somebody at night or send a small amount without having to pay fees, it's been an obvious use case since from the beginning. &gt;&gt; Yeah. you know, it's like, "Hey, I want to buy something from you or from a store. Let's pay with crypto um and not have to rely on an app that you're not really holding your own money." You know, if you go to the bank and try to ask them for your money, there's 21 questions and then they still don't want to give you your own money cuz it's not your money, &gt;&gt; right? &gt;&gt; But the the coins in your wallet, depending on what blockchain and what crypto, for the most part, uh are your funds. So, that's a huge advantage. You know, that's &gt;&gt; fundamental difference in what we see in money. Yeah. And then I guess you were just kind of hinting on the rise of the AI agentic narrative, but what today is exciting you about crypto that you did not think would excite you when you first got into the space? M well the tokenization of the stock market has always been exciting but of course that's that's a big thing but there's going to be many other there's so much to the traditional financial industry you know the money market and private equity first before public stock there's a lot of things that are happening which are exciting um that evolutions that need to happen before we can get you know the tokenized version of the NASDAQ. That's going to happen. It It's coming sooner. But over the last few cycles, you know, I recall being in the Bahamas 2018 for the security token summit. 2018 was the year of security tokens. &gt;&gt; STOs. &gt;&gt; Yeah. The STOs. &gt;&gt; Well, that was like many, many years ago at this point. And we still don't really have an exchange for securities that has liquidity. Uh and we're still working on you know some now with real world assets some companies are starting to tokenize their private stock. It can be transferred to other people privately more efficiently but public stock market that's something really big that is still in the works and of course there's a lot of moving parts to that. &gt;&gt; Yeah. All right. Well is this your first this isn't your first Eve Denver. &gt;&gt; It actually is. Oh my god. Yeah. I've been to some major conferences. you know, I did a huge cycle in 2017, but um this one I I had uh other um other commitments for for some of the previous ETH Denvers, and I'm not going to shame you. &gt;&gt; I took a I took some hiatus off to to do some digital nomad traveling. uh postcoid uh I was still building in the space doing episodes of cryptocoin show and bringing awareness to blockchain projects that are innovating uh over over the years the whole time you know 5 to 10 episodes per week &gt;&gt; and that's how we got to 1500 videos but uh in terms of East Denver as my first time here thankfully I'm glad to be here a lot of builders uh which you know with AI agents now seems to one of the major topics alongside Ethereum. Of course, &gt;&gt; there's so many more builders cuz people can start building things and they don't really need to have any technical expertise. &gt;&gt; So, it's amazing to see a lot of people are building stuff uh here. &gt;&gt; So, for better or worse, is this living up to the hype and expectations that might have been made? Yeah, I think I think it's it is, you know, it you don't want to have too much overhyped retail uh or newbie interest, &gt;&gt; you know, and yeah, you want the retail to come in to be your liquidity maybe. Um, but it's great that there's more builders here and you know, if I can, one of the recent conferences I was at was at the Bitcoin Vegas last year in 2025, right? And there was like 20 to 30,000 people. You know, the vice president was there and it was a lot of retail, a lot of hype. Um, but not a lot of building going on. And this is a lot more fundamentals here. So, I'm impressed with it. &gt;&gt; Cool, man. Um, another selfish question for myself. If somebody out there is deciding that they want to start getting into web 3 and crypto content, what's other than posting uh five to 10 times a week, what's a piece of advice that you have for somebody who's out there trying to grow an audience? &gt;&gt; I think building a niche in the type of sort of subindustry in blockchain that they're personally interested in. What are some of the coins that you first got interested in and maybe you bought some, you know, was it was it DeFi? Was it some subsector of an industry that may not be related to blockchain, but how blockchain is innovating on that. Find something that you're interested in. Of course, if you're going to be making content, and it needs to be what you're interested in. If you're just interested in investing in general, talk to the founders, look for early stage projects or upcoming token sales, things like that. Sort of hone in on that. Or if it's the markets and trading, there's always there's always room for more content creators. You know, I have friends that started way after me and are way bigger and it's never too late to start. &gt;&gt; Awesome. Ashton, thanks for your time, man. &gt;&gt; I appreciate it. &gt;&gt; Cheers.