Kind: captions Language: en LFG. This is Crypto Talk and Blockchain Walk. ETH Denver live. Well, not live, but &gt;&gt; Yep. recorded. Yeah. &gt;&gt; We're here with Patrick. How's it going, Patrick? &gt;&gt; It's going well. Yeah, it's going well. I appreciate you having me on. &gt;&gt; I have a quick question. Is Eth? Is it dead like everyone on Crypto Twitter saying? &gt;&gt; Not at all. I think honestly there is uh maybe a little bit quieter than most years. So, I think that's something to be expected, but the amount of quality that's out at the event this year is is very uh promising. There's a lot of builders. People are building uh heads down, building interesting things, and very uh very productive event. &gt;&gt; I've been just like shilling the high signal to noise ratio on my tweets. &gt;&gt; Would you agree? &gt;&gt; I 100% agree. I would 100% agree. &gt;&gt; Is this your first ETH Denver? No, I've been going to ETH Denver for maybe coming up on my fifth or sixth time. &gt;&gt; Get out of here. Really? &gt;&gt; Yeah. I've been in the space for quite some time. So, &gt;&gt; well, I'm not opportunity. Yeah. Opportunity to be out here quite a bit. Yeah. &gt;&gt; I'm not doubting the the tenure of your space. Actually, uh we first got to connected for the podcast, the Smart Economy podcast. So, this is a repeat guest that we have. &gt;&gt; It's going to be back. It's good to be back. &gt;&gt; Um you were formerly at Galaxy and now you're at Colani. Yep. What made you want to switch from like working with humans to working with agents? &gt;&gt; Yeah. So, I would I would describe it as uh I've spent most of my career in the infrastructure side and so spending a a year with Galaxy was excellent. I worked on a lot of key problems when it comes to ecosystem building and how are we bringing that next wave of adoption into this space. When it comes to Colani, we focus on intent orchestration and settlement across as of right now 42 different chains, thousands of assets, and it's heavily predicated on this notion of how do we solve for UX transaction abstraction, simplified flows, being able to identify an outcome you want and being able to have it be executed on your behalf. So effectively, as I see it, going from how do we handle the onboarding of web 3 with Galaxy &gt;&gt; to once they're here, let's get them to stay by making the UX as easy and intuitive as it can be. So that's kind of the the TLDDR. &gt;&gt; Um, one of we had Austin come chat with us and we spoke about this before we hit record. Awesome is talking about X42 and 804, which is basically like making the rails for agents to have wallets and identity. What are like some of the considerations we have to have when we're giving agents access and autonomy over our assets? What are the things I don't know that I need to be worried about? Yeah, I mean I think a lot of people understand that there's always going to be a heightened level of risk in web 3 naturally by having access to capital or putting your capital on chain. And so that opens you up to a number of different scenarios of you know funds being lost, stolen, whatever it may be, hacked otherwise. agents themselves are going to face and already are facing those exact same considerations. And so both from a from a security perspective or maybe we'll start with reputation. One of the things you identified there a lot of people are heavily interested in how do we handle &gt;&gt; authenticity, reputation, ensuring the efficacy of these these agents on chain. Mhm. &gt;&gt; And so a lot of these new standards, these new uh developments that are being made are around creating solutions for just that, reputation systems, registries and otherwise. I think one of the things that people often don't talk about is enough is what are the steps that we can take or the solutions we can provide as execution rails so that these agents can operate in an environment that has appropriate guard rails for that execution. One of the things that we work on from an intent perspective is how do you state an outcome and in a deterministic escrobased atomic way have that outcome be settled on your behalf. That's what we do for people across you know crypto web 3 today. And it's the same type of infrastructure that people should look for or agents should look to utilize when it comes to their involvement on chain &gt;&gt; because at the end of the day I think a lot of people uh when it comes to settlement or agent uh gentic settlement genic involvement on chain &gt;&gt; a lot of Yeah. Go ahead. No, I was just going to say like you're when you when you combine you're throwing out to the to the layman a lot of big words. When it when you understand the concept, it makes a lot of sense. An intent is just saying I want my agent act on my behalf to do a and then the agent does BCDE E FG to get that done. And you guys are building the infrastructure for the assets to be able to move between networks in the way that we want them to move so that Keelani makes it possible for me to get my intent met which is my intent is to have this thing and Colani builds that. So what do you foresee as being like the killer use case for this? Are we talking like I want to turn my USDC into allocate into B on three different blockchains or are there other ways that we're going to be envisioning and using these assets and uh networks like Colani beyond just like give me stable coin for RWA? What are the use cases you're envisioning like right now? Yeah. So I think a lot of the focus today is on the payment side of the equation as well as the investment aspect. So I do think that those are that next major frontier uh where agents will be involved and we'll leverage intent infrastructure for execution or trustless execution, &gt;&gt; guaranteed execution if you will. That being said, I think the next couple of areas to to look out for in this in this regard is things like uh commerce. How do you handle multiple individual intent flows, multiple individual &gt;&gt; uh let's call it acquisitions of items, uh conditional acquisition of items, things of that nature. Uh stringing and composing together multiple different intents uh across various different services. It could be paying for things here. It could be fulfillment of activations there. It could be uh any number of different composable flows that you're putting together and having executed by a network like like Colani. &gt;&gt; Awesome. I guess um zooming out and wrapping up your new is with Colani. You've been there a little bit over a quarter, maybe maybe closer to two. What's like one big challenge that you're looking forward to uh in the coming months? Yeah. So, I think there's a couple things that are top of mind for us. One is we're launching a consumer app that will be focused on allowing people to express intents what they want to achieve in the market and have our network fulfill it on their behalf in that deterministic escrobased format. &gt;&gt; So, that's something that's pretty exciting for us to be launching on the B2C front. builder. &gt;&gt; Uh in addition to that, generally speaking, there's still that knowledge gap that exists at scale between what are intents and how will they play a role in the future of our our industry. &gt;&gt; So, I think helping with that education process, helping with that enablement process is one of the biggest challenges, but also something that I'm very excited on. &gt;&gt; Yeah. I mean like &gt;&gt; the things you're talking about are going to be very useful and there's a lot of groing to do to understand them natively and intuitively from a retail users end and I'm sure with a lot of other types of clients you're you're working with. So um that's going to be a fun challenge. I think you did a fantastic job at what you were doing at Galaxy and onboarding folks and onboarding teams and I'm excited to see how you do this with humans and with agentic networks moving forward. &gt;&gt; Absolutely. &gt;&gt; What's the best way that people can um follow what you're doing and uh follow Kehani? &gt;&gt; Yeah, absolutely. So, you can stay up to date on some of our major developments on channels like X. Uh our X account is Keani_network. You can also check us out on our website, read some of our documentation. Some of the biggest advancements that we making are featured there as well. And that's colani.xyz. That is kh a l a n i.xyz. &gt;&gt; Brad. Well, thanks for joining me on another episode of Crypto Talk and Blockchain Walk. &gt;&gt; Awesome, Dylan. I appreciate you having me. &gt;&gt; Cheers, man. Cheers.