We're just going to walk. &gt;&gt; Yes. &gt;&gt; Look at this. &gt;&gt; What's up? What's up everyone? We're here in the beautiful ETH Boulder. &gt;&gt; We're on We're on crypto talk and blockchain walk. Episode &gt;&gt; Did you just make the title? It's actually very good. Keep that. &gt;&gt; Episode 001 where we talk the talk with builders who walk the walk. &gt;&gt; Nice. We definitely We are on the ground. We are on the trenches. We're hearing bunch of like good talks. I really enjoyed this morning the talk from Sean on uh on Eli and agents and uh yeah and I really appreciate the the entire kind of like ETH if Boulder um first edition because there are multiple like venues and uh there I think like four or something. Yeah. &gt;&gt; Yeah. Five. &gt;&gt; They opened to fifth. &gt;&gt; And the cool thing is that there are all all everything is nearby, right? So you can just walk and uh and do the talk and walk in the talk, right? &gt;&gt; Franchesco, why are you here? What are you what project are you representing and why are you in Boulder? &gt;&gt; Nice. Nice. So quick intro about myself. I'm Franchesco. I'm leading developer relation at consensus. That's the mother company of MetaMask in Fura Lineia and uh you know I'm excited. It's uh kind of like four plus year I'm in the company but most important is I'm trying to kind of like be a little bit around the horizontal around different topic and I think those days I'm super focused around developer tooling like our MetaMask SDK embedded wallet that's the old web three post acquisition and uh and one part of kind of like the our developer stack is embedded uh is smart accounts and when we're speaking about hey a tree here and when we're speaking about smart accounts uh kit is all about permissions and I think now with kind of like the big wave of uh aantic economies we're seeing more and more needs of giving permissions and uh yeah we were talking like uh last week with a walkie you know you saw probably the tweet about uh uh social engineering uh the agents to giving the the private keys and that's why we need permissions we need actually like giving permission to do specific uh task to agents and uh controlling the the output And I think uh and I think it's quite crazy what what is happening those days with uh with open claw and uh and the kind of like renaissance of uh uh the entire space around the gigantic economies. &gt;&gt; Did you were did you were expecting something like that like in less than a month we're seeing like an open claw big crypto Twitter wave? &gt;&gt; No. In fact, uh I listened to a podcast with Austin Griffith and he said that his agent decided that using MetaMask was too difficult. Yes. &gt;&gt; So it tried to withdraw the private key from MetaMask and start operating on its own and Austin had to stop the agent from doing that. &gt;&gt; Oh yes, I remember that. So um what are the kind of &gt;&gt; Yeah, I mean right now what's happening I mean obviously like Austin agent he mentioned like he gave a totally like extra uh machine instance uh and also like controlling directly the extension but for example what we're working on and I think now it's it's it's public there is different kind of like metamas that uh the agent can use and interact directly without um uh without passing through the extension and the cool thing is that because we have smart account kit with this delegation toolkit being embedded. You can actually like give a specific permission and actually like they're called caveats but you can build uh some permission system directly for agents and it's perfect for actually the agent use case because you can actually say hey only this agent can do this specific uh uh part and uh yeah it's quite straightforward. So I'm excited to see also like what's coming more and more but also like we need to nail down what are the specific use case because right now there is a lot going on. We see a lot of kind of AI plus blockchain. There is a lot of like uh you know the blockchain space has been shadowed by this AI wave. But at the end of the day when when I was checking out like some specific like uh X42 uh payments volumes we were seeing like uh random uh I think like 70% of those X42 payments are basically like agents farming themselves. So it's actually you know we also need to understand what is happening really and what use case are really out there and what is this intersection between uh between AI and and blockchain because I think no matter what we I think we were debating this a little bit before but no matter what is happening I think there are some specific use case that actually without um without a blockchain ecosystem AI will be full fully out of control like like reputation system like social credentials last night. &gt;&gt; Exactly. &gt;&gt; So, uh, when I got into crypto, we were always talking about onboarding the first billion users, and this was 2017 and now in 2026, how much of the first billion users are going to be AI agents? &gt;&gt; Ah, that's that's so funny that you're saying that because uh I did like two weeks ago a quick hot takeake on on crypto Twitter that went quite viral. was it was about you know like dashboard will not anymore be consumed by by by humans and the next kind of like billion users at least like 50 to 80% will be actually agents because we will build aantic economy means the the humans will actually task agents to do things because obviously consumer will always choose uh the most frictionless path right &gt;&gt; and I think like having agents or whatever you want to call it uh people uh basically like agents delivering value for for consumer. It make totally sense, right? It's is just one natural way to do but also like we're speaking about those top top top consumers that want to actually like uh kind of like leverage technology but I think like we still have you know a bunch of people there are still uh want to go through SSO and social login um you know making kind of like abstracting the way of things. So I think uh the entire kind of like 437 abstraction is still is still happening and is still there. &gt;&gt; From your perspective being uh Devra lead at MetaMask, how far are we from a world where we're no longer hiring humans to work at MetaMask and we're only hiring AI? Look, I think like there are this there are two big things like that are happening like you know obviously like uh you know auditing I mean we're getting so many kind of like PRs that are driven by clock code right so and there is actually more time involved to due diligence those PR right so I think like uh I don't think we will have like a very shortterm uh or nearby place for for exactly like that this statement but I think you know what we are seeing like we are enabling a lot of like the all my colleagues uh myself included like with with actually a stack right so I think uh this is definitely like but I think like specific on like workflows and um there there are like ways to enhance like productivity I think for example for the devil profession in general I mean things like change so fast right so we start seeing like uh uh content creation content distribution ution that are being uh accelerated. Uh we see like outreach being accelerated. I mean like how also a developer is consuming docs is consuming tutorial is very different. But I think one things that we should not forget is still learning the fundamentals right all the vibe coder out there please learn the fundamentals trying to understand why and what he's doing because at the end you still need to plan this prompt. you still need to kind of like understand how you what infrastructure you want to build with and how you want to kind of like architect this right so I think yes maybe in a future things will get more autonomous but I think it's the same with like data science you know garbage in garbage out we need to make sure also we're building use case that actually will be consumed and uh yes PMF is getting earlier but also like distribution is is king right now right so uh we ever as distribution is also able to make people u uh make people consume like something valuable. &gt;&gt; Awesome. Um last question. We're here at ETH Boulder. It's a much smaller event. We're ahead of ETH Denver. &gt;&gt; What's kind of your biggest takeaway from ETH Boulder. What are you enjoying most about this event? &gt;&gt; I think like uh so first is one of the first uh conference that I don't have a lot of stress, a lot of pressure. I I think like you know programming is not just talks or panel but it's also like workshops like this morning we did a small session of like Tai Chi just like before the workshop was really cool but I think like uh like also what I picked up between yesterday and today this is the second day tomorrow is the last day um you know I think social coordination uh is a is a big topic um not just in uh you know in in the region space but in general right so social coordination but also social reputation, agent reputation is something that uh is getting more and more important. Um, and I think you know what we don't want is kind of like a word where we see like you know forked skills or forked like ds doing exactly the same thing right because at the end the person or like the people the consumer that will actually not benefit about it will be uh the end consumer that doesn't want to get exposed to the technology right so I think uh this is a big part of the game and uh I'm learning also like a lot right this space is moving so fast. But I'm also happy that uh is I think it's one of the first year and I've been here like for four or five consecutive years is actually the weather is great and it's not that cold, &gt;&gt; right? &gt;&gt; I it's strange to say it like for any Denver. Let's hope the weather will stay the same, but uh I'm excited also like to to see the next days and what I will learn and what we will debate. And uh tomorrow we'll have also quick talk around A004 and um Aantic wallets. So stay tuned and come say hi if you're around. &gt;&gt; Well, I enjoy this event because I got to pull your ear and if we met any at Denver, a million people would be wanting to talk to you. &gt;&gt; Oh no, no, no, no. I really appreciate it that we're doing this interview, especially in outside. I wish to do more interview like in in this weather and uh and outside and not just sit at the table and uh yeah and uh we're touching some Denver boulder grass. Let's say that. Let's say that. &gt;&gt; What's the best way that someone can follow you, reach out to you? just uh my my door always open. Uh DM him on on Twitter, Telegram, anywhere. Ask my agents. You can you can even DM my agents now and he's like reporting back through like OpenClow and uh yeah any anytime also like if you want to contribute like any PR uh just check what you're submitting any PR is always open and uh yeah thanks so much for doing this interview. I really appreciate it. &gt;&gt; That's crypto talk and blockchain walk. Thanks everyone. &gt;&gt; Love it. Thanks everyone. tears.