What's going on everyone? Welcome to your daily digest for Friday, April 25th, where I bring you fact-based, non-sensational, objective information about what's going on in the broader blockchain and cryptocurrency space. And boy, do we have a doozy today. So, happy Friday. Let's kick this off. The Federal Reserve is retracting guidance that discourages banks from engaging in crypto and stable coin activities that were previously discouraged um from allowing banks to participate in The Fed has also joined the FDIC and the Office of the Comproller of Currency to reser re reverse their two previous statements regarding banks exposure to crypto. The House is preparing a second stab at its crypto market bill. Um, which basically means that the House Representatives are in final stages of drafting a crypto market structure bill. Um and this comes at a time when the stable act and the genius act uh the stable coin bills going through house and senate respectively are going through their committee markups. So progress being made. The ultimate goal is for both the stable coin and market structure bill to be passed by the end of the summer. According to President Trump, the SEC is dropping yet another case against Dragon Train, Dragon Chain over its ICO that took place in 2018. Um, this is just another long list, sorry, it took place in August of 2017. This is just another long list in projects that are being having their litigation dropped by the SEC. And of course, as we can see here, token price responded favorably to that news. In ETF news, Bitwise has filed to launch a near ETF in Delaware as we start to see more and more proc crypto legislation coming out of the administration. However, the SEC has also delayed its decisions on Polka Dot and Hideera's ETFs um and those will be delayed until June 11th. Um, the commission finds it appropriate to designate a longer period within which to take action on the proposed rule change, which basically means that new ETFs are being submitted, but the SEC is not rushing into approving them. And this was a nice article that came out of Coint Cointelegraph where it states the sentiment of Bitcoin ETFs is rewiring market structure. And long story short, um the argument being made in this article is that the volatility is being reduced because of these largecale marketwide ETFs for Bitcoin. Um and that we're just in a new era for the digital asset class. The argu the article also makes an argument that the same forces for that are responsible for um flattening out the volatility of Bitcoin may also be removing the opportunity for the lifeblood of altcoin speculation. And uh the article notes one of the most notable shifts in 2025 is the absence of a classic alt season. Every four years, Bitcoin has h haveved and there has been a corresponding uh parabolic movement of various altcoins during this four-year cycle and we haven't really seen that this year. It typically happens the year after the having which occurred for Bitcoin last year. Um so this should be the year where we're seeing things like Ethereum and Near and Atom and all these other alt L1s really mooning, but we're not seeing that at all. Um, so this article speculates that this could just be a byproduct of institutions getting into the game. Another cool piece of network stats, uh, Fidelity Digital Assets has pointed out that there's 2.6 million Bitcoin on exchanges. This is the lowest level amount of Bitcoin that's been on exchanges since November 2018. Since November 2024, over 425,000 Bitcoin have moved off exchanges. So remember folks, not your keys, not your coins. If you don't have your Bitcoin on your own wallet that you secure yourself, then it is not your Bitcoin. If you don't know what I'm talking about, maybe you should take a little bit of a look into that. OpenC, a now crosschain NFT marketplace, saw a massive amount of activity um over the past quarter with um 40% of the total market trading volume in NFTTS. Um and so we can just see here the amount of NFTts per wallet distribution. Um and the the vast majority uh nearly 70% are via OpenC. Ethereum devs are testing a 4x increase in gas limit for the uh Fusaka hard fork which will be taking place after Pekra which is coming up next. I hope I got that right. Um and what is gas limit? The gas limit on Ethereum refers to the maximum number of steps that can be executed by the transaction on the Ethereum network. Currently, that's at 20 million. Basically, this means that after a certain limit, in order to pay for a transaction on the Ethereum network, you will have to spend more and more and more in gas costs, increasing how much it costs for you to perform a swap or to migrate a token or to move Ethereum from your private wallet to a custodial exchange. Um, this also has implications on how much it costs for a project smart contract to operate on top of the network. So really what this is supposed to do by increasing the gas limit is allowing the Ethereum layer 1 to scale more and to reduce congestion during times when a lot of people want to be using the Ethereum network which historically has jacked transaction fees up to 10 20 40 100 sometimes even $200 depending on what you're trying to do. Um, additionally, Ethereum saw the largest single day inflow in a long faking time with 449,000 Ethereum in accumulation addresses over the past 10 days. Uh, Ethereum inflows into accumulation addresses reached their highest level since 2018. It has been since 2018 that wallets cumulatively um got access to 449,000 Ethereum. Uh so this is a nice little market um onchain piece of activity to see. And just to note that 449K had an average valued price of 17,000 $1,750. Um, so yeah, congratulations to the Ethereum network. That was the most significant single day inflow in Ethereum's history. Now, to wrap up with some fun uh city and statebased news, we'll start with the negative. Uh, a city in Arkansas has once again reject rejected a crypto mining proposal. Um, in Vonia, Arkansas, the residents and the planning commission, the planning commission unanimously rejected a proposal to establish a mining facility within city limits following staunch community push back. This is not the first time that the city has pushed back on launching a Bitcoin mining operation in 2023. There was also a denial from VO AR that wanted to build. Um, and this also followed uh another strong year of opposition from voluonia residents. Uh, that being said, in 2024, the Arkansas State House passed two bills to also restrict cryptocurrency mining within the state. Um, a fun little headline in here that I'm having a hard time finding right now and I don't want to spend too much time digging into. Um, but the residents called themselves a natural state and not a Bitcoin state. Uh, Slovenia's Slovenia's capital of Ljubana has ranked as the world's most crypto friendly city. What does that mean? Well, the reviewers took a look at regulations, ti tax tax environments, lifestyle factors, and digital and crypto infrastructure and rated um uh the top 20 cities um including Ljubana, Hong Kong, Zurg, Z Singapore, and Abu Dhabi as the top five. Only one US city, Madison, Wisconsin. Shout out to them. I did not know that they were even that crypto friendly. Um but some other uh evaluations included city licensing frameworks, capital gains tax rates, GDP per capita, housing affordability, and internet speeds. And lastly, an Italian town of Fornelli in the Moise region of Italy will be dedicating a monument to the pseudominate pseudonmous founder of Bitcoin, Satoshi Nakamoto. The town states that they um added to the the monument because of all the new ideas that come from their young people. So, lot of news, a lot of fun things, a lot of okay things happening across the crypto space over the past 24 hours. If you appreciated this video, please don't hesitate to give me a heart, to slap me a follow on Twitter or YouTube, and to subscribe to our subreddit, our Smart Economy podcast, where you can keep up to date with all of our daily digest videos, our bimonthly podcast episodes, and our weekly Twitter spaces. Have a safe and fun and awesome weekend. I might not be catching you as much next week because I'll be in Dubai for Token 2049, but we'll see what we can do. Cheers.