Kind: captions Language: en Crypto talk and blockchain walk. &gt;&gt; Let's go. Let's go. &gt;&gt; With Connor, what's your I see you as like the head person who places people in base. What's your like official job title? &gt;&gt; My official job title is just onchain recruiter at Bass, but I uh I work on a team of four recruiters. One who's also focused on Bass. He's our technical recruiter. Uh a recruiter who's focused on CDP, Coinbase developer platform. And then we have a sorcerer as well. and we report to our head of recruitment, whose name is Kevin Quinn. Uh, but yeah, the five of us kind of make up Bay CDP recruitment. &gt;&gt; Sick. So, like, what's the experience of going to these IRL events and finding people that you want to work with? Is it way better than just like sourcing potential candidates from online? &gt;&gt; 100%. I mean, obviously our industry lives online and onchain, &gt;&gt; but my cliche is that despite it all being online and onchain, life happens in person. And meeting a candidate in person is like a game changer. I've got to speak to candidates that I've spoken to online the entirety of my time in the uh blockchain space, but getting to meet them in person like it makes it full circle. So um I can't speak higher about recruiting in person. &gt;&gt; So we met in Buenocidis after I saw you online. Really cool to like see a face that you see online in person. Uh, how does the kind of like event in Buenocidus, which was of course Ethereum Dev Connect, how does that compare to what's going on here at ETH Denver? &gt;&gt; Very different vibe. Um, and I think it was a very different time in the market too. I mean, &gt;&gt; we still had hope. &gt;&gt; We there was still a lot of hope in the market. I think there's still hope, but it definitely feels a little bit lessened right now. Um, this has been very, &gt;&gt; for lack of better term, bare market vibes. But I think the uh the the flip side of that is it's builder market. And so everyone that I've talked to is very builder focused. I've been telling people it does feel like we're kind of in a purge of the market right now. A lot of the uh the bad projects are being rooted out, but those who cons uh those who continue to be resilient are the ones that are going to thrive come the next bull market. Does that benefit your job when you're trying to bring the best into base? Like, do you want to be talking to bare market builders or do you see the good in both the bull and the bear? &gt;&gt; It's easier to hire in the bull market, I think. Um, but the people I've hired in the bare market, this is my second bare market hiring, but the people I hired in my last bare market are the ones that stuck with their jobs a lot longer. Um, again, I think the the word is resilience. So, um, I think there's benefits to both. &gt;&gt; Yeah. So, we actually hopped on a call a couple weeks ago and talked a little bit about what it's like to find a job. From your perspective at base, what's the best way that like people can maybe like not necessarily stand out, but convey the best of their qualities to what you're looking for? How can they do that in a concentrated manner so that you can make the most of both yours and their time when you have a line of communication? &gt;&gt; Yeah, I think I mean the best thing people can do for themselves is I think there's three ways to stand out honestly in the in the crypto markets. The first is building. If you can figure out a way to build an app in the blockchain space, you're going to stand out against the crowd because you can speak to exactly what you're trying to apply for. Um, especially and just to do a quick shill on base, we have a lot of documentation to get started even for nontechnical builders. And so I would look into that if I were a candidate looking for a job in the space. How do I build an app or a mini app? Just build something because that is truly the best experience you can have. The second is creating. And when I talk about creating, I mean creating content. And it's definitely not the most comfortable. But if you can get out of your comfort zone and create written content about things that you're interested in or even better, create video content like this to brand yourself, you're going to have this portfolio that you can now share with any potential employer and show them that you're going to go outside of the scope of whatever the role you're applying for is. Like you have this industry knowledge and you're willing to put it out there and people eat that up. &gt;&gt; And number three, &gt;&gt; number three is trading. And it's a little bit harder. It is kind of the way that I got into the space. I was really interested in the DeFi summer projects in 2019 2020. So I did a lot of research at the time on the chain links of the world and the polygons and as a history major in my past as well. Having all that research really helped when I wanted to go and help found a recruitment agency early on in the space. So I do think that's another avenue. It's definitely a little bit harder to synthesize that experience, but I would say those are the three main ways you could stay there. &gt;&gt; Awesome. And so before we hit record, I mentioned that I wanted to pull on this thread and I think it can be um like difficult when you're talking with a company and you're going down the interview process and maybe you make it to the second or third and it just wasn't a right fit. But that's not to say that the candidate is a poor candidate or the company is a nasty company. So, what's like the best piece of advice to kind of keep people going when they thought they were so close to getting that dream job and it just didn't work out? What does that say about them and what's the way that they can look at their own kind of self-worth and keep on going and keep on fortifying forward? &gt;&gt; Yeah, it's definitely uh it's definitely a challenge I would say, but like got to be resilient when it comes to the job market. Unfortunately, this is one of the toughest times to get in into any job, especially for younger candidates in the space. That's where I think it comes back to building, creating, or trading. It's like build your experience up outside of whatever the the scope of the interview process you were in is in was. Um, that being said, I think there are definitely ways to improve and those would be connecting with like recruiters. Recruiters in general want to place you because it helps them in their own careers. So, if you can find a recruiter that wants to like help build your your experience up, that's the best thing you can do. Personally, in my recruitment style, even if I have a candidate that's not necessarily going to be the fit for the right role or for the role that I'm uh looking for at the moment, working with them to help bolster their re resume, giving them tips on like how to interview better, those are the things that I think help in general, and they can take that into their next into their next interview process. &gt;&gt; Awesome. And I think Connor's a man in hot demand these days, but if you can get a line of communication with him, he's very open to communicating with you and we'll have a call with you and just chat with you. Absolutely. &gt;&gt; So, I've always appreciated that about you. Um, what's the next fitness goal? You were running training for a marathon after Buenocitis. What's next this year? &gt;&gt; Yes. I I think I'm going to start training for a halfiron man. &gt;&gt; You really dislike yourself, don't you? &gt;&gt; I love to push myself. Discipline is key. That's the other thing in getting a job, be disciplined about it. &gt;&gt; Awesome. Way to bring it all around. What's the best way that people can find what you're working on and how can we throw people into putting their resumes into the ring for bass? &gt;&gt; Absolutely. Uh well, you can reach me on X. Jay Connor Hollowman on X. That's probably the best way to reach me. I'm on LinkedIn as well. Um &gt;&gt; if you're interested in ROS, just reach out. I'm happy to connect you where I can. We we have all of our open roles listed on bass.org/job /job and to show Coinbase coinbase.com/careers too. So um and happy to connect you where I can. Uh other thing I would say too is I know that we are currently uh looking for builders in our base batches international accelerator program. That's definitely another way a candidate can stand out too. Uh we're looking for startup projects. We're looking for projects with a robotics track sponsored by virtuals. And we're looking for students to submit projects. So, those are all other ways you can connect with us. &gt;&gt; And is the LinkedIn meta dead or should people start using LinkedIn? &gt;&gt; I don't know. I don't know. I think X is X is my favorite these days. LinkedIn is a great spot, but I don't know. X is a more direct communication line. &gt;&gt; Awesome. Well, we took Connor away from his booth time, so we're going to let him go. Thanks for giving us some of your time today, dude. &gt;&gt; You're welcome. Nice to nice to chat with you here. &gt;&gt; Cheers.