GM everyone. Welcome to your daily digest for Thursday, May 8th, 2025, where I bring you fact-based, non-sensational, objective information about what's going on in the broader blockchain and cryptocurrency space. Today, we're kicking it off with something of a fun one that makes me want to ask the government to introspect itself. Representative Torres has introduced a bill that bans Trump lawmakers from cashing in on meme coins and stable coins. The bill is called the Stop Presidential Profitering from Digital Assets Act, which would basically make it unlawful for someone to create, issue, or promote a digital asset that uses the name, likeness, image, or other recognizable traits of a covered individual. And while I certainly dis or while I certainly agree that the Trump token was disgusting, as was the Libra token launched by the Argentinian president, I also have to ask that Congress does a little bit of introspection. There's been a lot of issues with insider trading with equities. And I think that that is a far larger concern that the American public has alongside this issue that we've seen with Trump and the Trump token. So get your house in order, Congress. Stop making money on the backs of American voters. The office of the comproller of the currency has stated that US banks can handle crypto crypto assets on behalf of their customers and can be held in custody. The OC is an independent bureau within the US Department of Treasury that regulates and supervises all national banks and also the federal branches of foreign banks. What the OC recently said in this letter that came out yesterday from acting comproller Rodney Hood is that OC regulated banks may buy and sell assets held in custody and are permitted to outsource bank permissible crypto asset activities including custody and execution services. This is a far cry in a complete 180 from where the OC stood just around a year ago that stated that banks cannot hold crypto assets on behalf of their customers. So this is indeed a new era in the US. The US sec Treasury Secretary has expressed support for crypto bills at a recent hearing. Scott Bessant said that the support for the two crypto-related bills moving through Congress um should be held. Uh here in his tweet he said, "We believe the US should be the premier destination for digital assets. Digital assets are an important source of innovation that can drive usage of the US dollar around the world with stable coin legislation." Um, just the other day, Democrats covertly or overtly stopped a conversation about the market structure bill that was going on in the in the House. Um, and there are currently two stable coin bills going through Congress, the Genius Act at the Senate level and the Stable Act at the House level. So, I think overall we're really getting to a point where we're going to start seeing some rubber meeting the road when it comes to legislation and we have uh topnotch government employees such as the Treasury Secretary stating their support for stable coins. Moving on to stable coins, Stripe has rolled out stable coin accounts in more than 100 company countries. Um, according to a May 7th announcement, the new feature will allow plat the platform's clients to send, receive, and hold US dollar stable coin account balances similar to how a traditional fiat bank works. Reading between the lines, this is important because we are helping to leverage an existing service that millions of people around the world use to send cryptocurrencies um in either cryptocurrency form and or to help them get their locally denominated fiat. Um and now there's a stable coin uh feature that's part of Stripe. Um, and this is probably largely a part of Stripe's recent $1.1 billion acquisition of Bridge, which we'll get into in a minute. Coinbase has agreed to acquire the crypto derivatives exchange Darabit in a recordbreaking 2.9 billion deal where $700 million of cash will be used and 11 million shares of Coinbase Class A common stock are used to acquire Darabit. Darabit is a um crypto derivatives trading exchange and this just joins a suite of products in acquisitions that Coinbase has done to make it a more holistic comprehensive financial asset solution. Um where are we? So the derabit deal also marks other Coinbase strategic acquisition strategies including the acquisition of Zapo which became Coinbase custody to goi which is now Coinbase Prime, Fairx which is now Coinbase deriv exchange and one river digital which is now Coinbase asset management. So, we continue to see the growth of Coinbase um as the regulatory and legislative nature towards crypto in the US starts to become more friendly. Uh for a little bit of opium out there, uh folks are talking about Ethereum price rising and while I certainly like to see number go up, I think the cool part of this article is that the recently Ethereum total value locked surged 41% to 52.8 8 billion in the past 30 days with a 22% rise in daily transactions to 1.34 million daily transactions. Um and so we can see number go up and a lot of calls charts are great. Uh but really this is just onchain metrics that are showing strength for Ethereum. Um, and some other positive signs include a 50% increase in deposits on Black Rockck's Biddle Fund and a 33% increase in Spark and a 25% growth in Etherfi. So, we're seeing institutional onchain tokenized asset funds increasing as well as cryptonative DeFi funds. And wrapping up in state news, the dichotomy of Arizona's governor. Um Arizona Governor Katie Hobbes has signed into law allowing for the state to claim ownership of digital assets that have been abandoned for at least three years now. Just earlier this month, she vetoed a bill that would state that the the state would be able to use its funds to acquire Bitcoin and other digital assets for pension funds. But it's okay if your assets have been seized and you have not been able to claim them for the past 3 years that can be added to the state's Bitcoin and crypto strategic reserve. In addition to this bill that just got signed, there's also Senate Bill 1373, which is also on her desk, and that would authorize Arizona's treasurer to allocate up to 10% of Arizona's budget stabilization fund into Bitcoin. And the Texas House Committee has passed the Bitcoin reserve bill for full floor vote. Um, and now that only needs a successful floor vote before heading to the governor's desk before being signed and enacted. So we are starting to see the integration of state level Bitcoin and crypto strategic reserves in advance of what might what might actually be um a federal reserve that gets proposed at some point in this year in the coming years and maybe we start seeing the US become a buyer of Bitcoin and other digital assets. So that wraps up today's daily digest. If you appreciated what you're seeing here, please don't hesitate to come over to the Smart Economy podcast subreddit where you can see uh an aggregation of all of the daily digest videos, our bimonthly podcast episodes, and the weekly spaces that we will release every week on the official Smart Economy Podcast X page. With all that said, I'm already looking forward to catching you tomorrow. Cheers.