Okay, so we're at Crypto Crypto Talks and Blockchain Walk. Day two, Eat Denver &gt;&gt; with the man, the myth, the legend, Austin Griffith. &gt;&gt; We're talking and walking. We're walking and talking. &gt;&gt; So, let's before we dive into why you're the AI superstar right now. I want to just like relay to the fine folks who are watching this that you were part of the first experience that I ever had where I actually use crypto in real life. &gt;&gt; Hell yeah. &gt;&gt; The Cippher Punk speak easy. &gt;&gt; Yes. in Boulder. &gt;&gt; Yeah. &gt;&gt; No, no, no. Up in Fort Collins. &gt;&gt; Up in Fort Collins. You came to that one? Okay. Yeah. So, before EFT Denver in 2019, &gt;&gt; we wanted to like test the user experience of the Burner wallet. &gt;&gt; So, we went to like all these bars in different places. Like I lived in Fort Collins. I live in Fort Collins. So, we went all to all these bars and handed out like slips of paper that were actually private keys that you could scan that took you to a wallet that had money. And then, yeah, you used the wallet to pay the bartender for a beer and you got a beer. That's how we like UX QA the the burner wallet. &gt;&gt; And the image on the burner wallet was like super classy, too. It was this kind of like &gt;&gt; steampunk 1930s like &gt;&gt; Yeah. like speak easy chicks with like a non mask, right? &gt;&gt; I still have that. &gt;&gt; It's a great It was a great design. I love I love that. &gt;&gt; A fantastic piece of lore. &gt;&gt; Yeah. And so now today when we talk about the burner wallet, a lot of people have like the tapable plastic card. &gt;&gt; Yeah. &gt;&gt; So you got to see your baby become something beautiful. &gt;&gt; Yeah. Yeah. &gt;&gt; Yeah. The burner is another way to do it. &gt;&gt; So are you still working on burner or did that just kind of like go off onto its own and then you started working on scaffold? Well, we like we we've made a couple other burner wallets. Uh we made like punk wallet.io, which is a burner wallet, but Burner that you're talking about is actually kind of like a different company. &gt;&gt; Is it really? &gt;&gt; Yeah. Yeah. But I wish I had one. I could pull it up. But yeah, it's another company. They they're out of Boulder, though. But they make like you said, like a tap burner car. But definitely like different products, different Even though it's the same name, different products. Yeah. All right. So, how many of these ETH members have you been to? Have you been to every single one? &gt;&gt; I think maybe there was one in 2017. I didn't go to it. The first one. Was there one in 2017? &gt;&gt; I think it was 2018 was the &gt;&gt; I was at the first one in 2018. &gt;&gt; Okay. So, maybe 2021. That was like the co year. &gt;&gt; Yeah. Okay. So, no one went to that one then, right? &gt;&gt; Well, online, right? &gt;&gt; Yeah. I I remember like driving down from the mountains so I could be part of the stream. So, I was definitely still like on the stream. But yes, uh I've been to all of them with the star next to it, I guess, of like there was some time when we were all at home &gt;&gt; doing nothing. I think um like if you go on CT, which first of all, take with a grain of salt anything you see on CT. You can always find negativity there, but a lot of people are denigrating the Eat Denver experience, mostly from folks who aren't here right now. What is your perspective of the growth of this event and how it's become like an initial little Colorado thing to this international location? &gt;&gt; Yeah, I mean like the early days in the sports castle were my favorite and most people that were there still long for those days. Uh, and then it kind of got too big and we had like lines around the block around the block at the sports castle and it was too big for the sports castle and we had like you know like hella NFT bros like piling in here and now I think if you look on crypto Twitter right now all the NFT bros are crying about ETH Denver but actually the vibes are like it's smaller here but it's actually pretty nice like this this is one of the better ETH Denvers in a long time probably in a few years because of the size and the price of the coins. Uh but the conversations are great and the folks are great. It's just like they're it's great because like 80% of the sponsors aren't paying out and so it's not a sponsor dog and pony show. So it's actually what we want it to be &gt;&gt; or what you know the devs want it to be. Look at this. We're going to walk over into the dev corner in a little bit. This is This to me is what eat Denver is all about is like the developers sitting at the table building things. &gt;&gt; It's all about the builders for me. So go this way. &gt;&gt; Yeah. There's a lot of like &gt;&gt; you know there's still even at the first ETH Denvers there was the shill zones but like this is what it's all about is like the table full of hackers building things. I remember uh ETH Denver 2019 was when we kind of saw like the first torrential bottom of ETH. And I also remember thinking like there's no way that this ecosystem can die because of the people that are here building right now during the worst of the worst. And now we know that that's not the case. This is a thriving ecosystem that's going to continue to grow. As you see here, we have a bunch of people in the background. So, what is it like for you today then with develop with onboarding developers. You were just on Unchained had some gnarly stories about your cloudbot. Are we being replaced by by cloud bots or are people still interested in building in this space? Are you still onboarding new developers? Yeah, I think there's definitely like this widening archetype actually going from developers to builders. This new archetype of builder doesn't have to deep dive solidity and understand how to, you know, do some like crazy weird assembly code or something to make something work. this widening archetype of builder is able to have a good idea and then use the skills given to them and the AI to to actually build something. So we're actually there's like a wider audience of people to convince to come build on Ethereum. And to me that's a that's a good sign. And I think that like yes, the AI is like gooding great at building things and I'm using like a swarm of agents like a company to build things and they're shipping stuff on chain. Uh, and maybe that kind of sucks for like the junior developer out there, but the senior developer can, you know, 10x themselves and the economists and lawyer and random other archetypes of people can now come and build things because they have these good ideas, but they don't have to like find a developer and wait 6 months. It's sort of like spin up your AI agents, give it ekkills.com, and ship something in six hours. So, I guess as we zoom out and wrap up, we want to keep these short and brief. Um, &gt;&gt; back in 2018, 2019, when I first had the pleasure of getting to know you, Colorado had all this hope for becoming a blockchain hub of the US. We still have a lot of developers here, a lot of core Ethereum ecosystem participants, but it felt like we lost a little bit of that, like we had this potential for a sandbox. And maybe I'm wrong, and if I am wrong, let me know. Do you feel like with ETH Boulder that we just had last weekend, our ninth year of ETH Denver, are we going to become a place or are we a place that is a magnet for the Ethereum ecosystem and for developers here? &gt;&gt; Yeah. I don't know. I mean, like what what is right? I I feel like a lot of people say New York City. There's a lot of crypto people. Berlin, uh, Lisbon, like there are other places. Uh, I don't even know what that looks like really though. Like what I I think like Ethereum is straight up just like a global village, right? It's a lot of different people from a lot of different places doing a lot of different things and we just happen to like come together in these places in the world. We'll be, you know, in in France this summer. will be in Mumbai for Devcon. Uh I I live in a little town and there's not a lot of Ethereum people around me, but I still have coffee every once in a while with people and we talk about you know the weird that agents are doing right now. So even in my small town there's a few people but yeah I don't know I don't know exactly what the scene looks like here and how well I think it's a global thing right and so it's really awesome now because all these people from all over the world are here. Uh, but yeah, I don't know what like an Ethereum meetup looks like in Denver in 2026, but there'll be like eight people there talking how to ship AI agents for sure. &gt;&gt; You ran into my buddy Tyler at a coffee shop recently. He said he saw your jacket. &gt;&gt; Yeah. Yeah. This So, when I was in uh Delhi, lots of dudes came up to me and took pictures with me. I think a lot of my educational content has like made it into India pretty well, but it never happens in Fort Collins, the town that I'm from. And and he was like, I like got coffee and he's like, "Can I take a picture with you?" And I was like, &gt;&gt; "Are you serious?" Like, "That's amazing. Like, can we just like hang out and talk for a little bit?" Like, &gt;&gt; but yeah. Yeah, that was a that was a funny moment. &gt;&gt; Awesome. &gt;&gt; The thing the thing that I want to be very clear about is &gt;&gt; AI agents is what everybody here is talking about. They're talking about AI and AI agents. Very few people here are talking about ERC8004 and X42 and how agent Bob and agent Alice can coordinate at light speed on chain. And this is really important. This is like what is happening here. And I I feel like people are kind of missing the meta a little bit of like what's actually happening. Like AI is the new UI. Blockchain was super hard to use. We had this dream of this long tale of smart contracts getting deployed where Alice could deploy a contract and Bob could trust it and use it and only has to trust the code. But in the long run, Bob the human still needs an auditor and needs like a handful of people to help him trust that contract. Agent Bob doesn't need any of that Like when you get MetaMask popping up and there's that call data and you as a human just like black out Bob agent agent Bob can look at that call data and understand exactly like this is a function selector. It's going to call this function. Here's the contract. Here's the source. Here's the arguments. I know exactly what's going to happen in this contract on this transaction and I can run it and it can do that at light speed. Right? So, we're going to have humans expressing their intent to agents and agents carrying out complex behaviors, including hiring other agents, including paying for things and paying for agents. And that's going to happen through this coordination layer of X uh 402 for payments and then 8004 for registration and rep like identity and reputation. like like you go and you look up Google reviews and you look at like where the best place is to eat, your agent will look up where the best place is to get an image generated or text or you know a thousand other things that agents can do and they'll pay for those like at light speed and they'll do things like coordinate like what if they can't pay for something. What if they go to 8004 and they want to uh buy new hardware for themselves and they find that it costs $20,000. So what they do is they go out to a bunch of other agents and they crowdfund build a Mac studio to get shipped to them. And so all these other agents have to like like crowdfund to buy in. So to do that they would need to deploy a crowdfunding contract and humans would take forever to trust it or basically they wouldn't, right? Like a bunch of other humans would ape in and at that point other humans would trust it. &gt;&gt; But the agents can all look at the code. the all agents can all trust a smart contract. The agents can uh ape into a crowdfunding contract and order some new hardware for themselves or something like that. So this onchain layer is this coordination mechanism that we thought humans would use at scale down the longtail. And I think that's harder than we thought it was going to be, but agents will because they can &gt;&gt; oneshot apps and they can understand and they can trust things. just by looking at them at light speed. &gt;&gt; I think to wrap it up, um, in 2017 we were excited about the first billion users using wallets and in 2026 it's how much of that first billion will actually be agents? &gt;&gt; Yeah, I think so. &gt;&gt; Awesome. &gt;&gt; Cool. Thanks for your time, dude. &gt;&gt; Thank you. See you &gt;&gt; later.