What's up everybody? Welcome to your daily digest for Wednesday, May 7th, 2025, where I bring you fact-based, non-sensational, objective information about what's going on in the broader blockchain and cryptocurrency space. Today, we're kicking off the Daily Digest with Strike getting into Bitcoin lending. We here at the Daily Digest are wishing Jack Mullers his very best. Though Bitcoin lending is not necessarily held in high regard with entities such as BlockFi, Celsius, and Genesis all capitulating in 2022. That being said, Strike has a clear product market fit and is used around the world. And Jack Mullers does seem to be somebody who is here for the long term. So, best of luck to Jack. In other news, Black Rockck spot Bitcoin ETF has topped its gold ETF this year with the IBIT ETF seeing 6.96 billion in inflows since the beginning of the year and the Spider Gold Trust only seeing 6.5 billion inflows despite the fact that gold has surged 29% whereas Bitcoin is only up 3.8%. The Ethereum Pectra network upgrade went live this morning without a hitch. Congrats to the Ethereum Foundation and all the builders in that ecosystem. Pectra is going to make it easier for smart accounts and account abstraction to take place on the Ethereum network which essentially makes it easier for users to use Ethereum and reduces some of the complexity for running an account on there. uh layer 2 scaling data storage blobs has increased by 2x potentially making L2s a little bit more scalable and there were also validator node improvements most notably which can help um institutional entities stake EIP-7002 makes institutional staking much easier to integrate without taking too much risk basically means that there won't necessarily be as many third parties if institutions want to get involved in staking their Ethereum, which we hopefully get to see with Ethereum ETFs at some point this year. Additionally, the amount of Ethereum that is necessary for a validator to be staked has increased from 32 ETH to something around 20 something or another, which will reduce validator node bloat on the network. in an interesting think piece by CoinDesk. Um, Ether ETFs and institutional staking. What's at stake? Long story short, um, we're hopefully going to start seeing less and less uh, third parties that are used for staking because right now institutional funds hold around 3.3 million ETH, of which the entire ETH that's out there, 27% of the total supply is used for staking. Um, an interesting thing to point out is that the majority of staking is provided by thirdparty service provider Lido, which as we can see on this chart here has an overwhelming majority of the staked supply. And as a decentralization maxi, we want to see that decrease. And as we start seeing more and more institutions get involved with Ethereum ETFs, we also want to see it possible for the ETFs to be able to return ETH staking yields and for these institutions to stake on their own, which will decrease the um will actually increase the amount of nodes that are being uh validated on the Ethereum network and entities that have skin in the game to ensure the network's secure. Uh we can see that Bitwise acquired a staking operator earlier this year um which acts as a signal that smart asset managers are positioning for a future where staking isn't just the back-end service but a core part of the funds value chain. So let's hopefully uh see some more Ethereum staking in the future. Uh yesterday I mentioned that the updated version of the market structure bill was going through congressional conversations and those were blocked as the Democrats walked out of the uh market structure bill hearing which was led by Representative Waters. Um the hearing didn't get very far as Waters objected to the gathering because unanimous approval is needed for joint hearings. she was successful in stopping the official proceedings. So there was a hiccup in the conversation of the market structure bill and um Representative French Hill, a Republican chairman of the House Financial Services Committee said a joint hearing has been very very needed. I understand the ranking member uh Maxine Watersh has concerns, but by objection to this hearing, the ranking member is undermining the opportunity for these two committees to engage in a conversation of vital importance to the American people. That's a loss for our committee, the House, and the public at large. Trump wants to see a market structure bill passed at some point in August. And the Democrats are basically shoring things up and stopping the conversation for this bill as a way to show their um lack of happiness or displeasure with Trump's digital assets businesses such as uh world finance and the Trump memecoin that he launched earlier this year. Continuing on to Trump's businesses, uh the World Liberty Finance stable coin is now the seventh largest stable coin in the world after a $2 billion injection from uh MGX uh was announced by Eric Trump. And as we can see here, um USD1 is number seven behind Tether, USDC, USDS, Athena's USD, DI SD, and SUSDS. So despite the fact that politicians are not happy with Trump's family's role in world liberty, uh we're continuing to see an increase in activity uh for the Trump platform backed stable coin. In other stable coin news, Tether has launched on Kaya, which is bringing USDT to Line, a messaging platform in Korea. Um, that has 196 million users across Asia. Um, despite the fact that Kaya doesn't necessarily have a ton of TVL onchain is a relatively new network, they do boast a large number of users and onchain activities due to many apps that are associated with Line. Moving on, Visa has uh doubled down its bet on stable coins and has invested in the blockchain payments firm BVNK or maybe it's bank bunk, I don't know how to pronounce it. Um but Visa has made a strategic investment. Uh bank is based in London and processed $12 billion in stable coin transactions annually and is expanding its services into the US. Uh the investment underscores a broader trend of mainstream financial firms adopting blockchain and stable coins as a faster cheaper alternative for payments. So the stablecoin narrative continues to emerge in 2025. Um movement labs has terminated its co-founder Rushi Munch. uh for a market making token deal that seemed a little shady. Um so movement labs has launched move industries and has announced that movement labs employees tab tarabi and the firm is now the firm CEO and will gains will be its chief marketing officer. uh the move ecosystem and move VM is largely starting to become a new narrative of something that is beyond the Ethereum VM and the Salana VM for the next kind of grab for developer mind share and of course move VM was built out of developers who came from the Facebook ecosystem. So um sorry to hear about the issues that the movement ecosystem has faced. Rushi is also a former guest on the Smart Economy podcast and um wishing this ecosystem the best of luck because with crypto all boats rise together. And moving on lastly, Bitwise has thrown its near ETF in the race for the spot approval. Bitwise named Coinbase custody as the proposed custodian for the Bitwise near ETF. And the near ETF joins a wide variety of other ETFs that have been thrown into the mix this year, including Litecoin, Dogecoin, Salana, Ripple, Cardano, Hideera, Polka Dot, Chainlink, Avalanche, Aptos, and Suie. And lastly, in US state news, the New Hampshire governor has signed the crypto reserve bill into law, making New Hampshire the first state in the US that can have a Bitcoin strategic reserve after Arizona's governor vetoed their bill earlier this month and Florida redrrew both of their crypto bills earlier this month. And that's today's daily digest. If you want to keep up to date with what is going on on our daily digest, please head over to the Reddit Smart Economy podcast subreddit to keep up to date with all the daily digests, our weekly spaces, and our bim monthly podcast episodes. See you next time. Cheers.