What's up everybody? Welcome to your daily digest for Friday, May 9th, 2025, where I bring you fact-based non-sensational objective information. Today we are kicking off with the SEC considering new rules that will ease security token issuance. In a speech published on May 8th by SEC Commissioner Hester Pur, the regulator is considering a potential exemptive order for firms using blockchain technology to issue, trade, and settle securities that would release them from certain registration requirements. This is just a long line in a series of positive notes that have come out of the SEC. So, keep your ears to the ground for future guidelines. In other news, Trump was tricked into pushing XRP that was going to be part of the digital asset reserve. Trump was purportedly manipulated by lobbyist, a lobbyist tied to Ripple Labs, uh, Brian Ballard, who actually gave Trump reportedly a text that he would be able to post to social media where he was recommended to announce the US crypto strategic reserve would include Ripple, Salana, and Cardano. After he posted the message on March 2nd, Trump learned that Ripple Labs was one of Ballard's clients. And this infuriated Trump because he felt like he'd been used and manipulated. Trump said he is not welcome in anything anymore. Referencing Ballad Ballard. Moving on. Uh the other day, yesterday, Democrats blocked support for the US stable coin bill, the Genius Act going through Senate, which failed to pass Cloer on May 8th. Um, a lot of folks are disappointed in this because it was purportedly seen as a bipartisan effort and as we've seen with the market structure bill walk out earlier this year led by Representative Waters and this now uh failure to reach closure for the genius bill. Uh we're starting to see some divisions in the bipartisan nature of the current stable coin and market structure bills going through Congress. But Blockchain Association CEO Kristen Smith said, "While disappointed that the Genius Act did not pass its closure vote today, we remain encouraged by the bipartisan engagement on this critical digital asset legislation." During the time when I went to DC in December of 2023, the divide wasn't necessarily between Democrats and Republicans, even though that's being painted as it is right now. It was more along the lines of boomers and everybody younger than them. So keep your ears to the ground for what happens there. The uni chain EVML2 has surpassed Ethereum as its top chain for unis swap version 4 by transaction volume. Uni chain's dominance in V4 has is also attributed to a $45 million liquidity incentive program which drove activity in addresses and TVL. According to DeFi Llama, the uni chain is the third largest L2 rollup by TVL at $800 million. And as we can see here in this purple, that is the amount of market share that uni chain has been able to capture for unis swap v4. Moving on, Superstate has unveiled opening bell, which will be a platform that tokenizes SEC registered public shares or equities on chain rather than trading a synthetic or a wrapped version. Superstate was among several firms to recently propose an SEC backed framework to bring Wall Street stocks on to the blockchain. The platform will initially launch on Salana but has plans to extend to Ethereum and others. In crime season, Alex Mashinsky, the CEO, disgraced CEO of the former Borrowland platform custodial centralized platform Celsius, has been sentenced to 12 years in prison for fraud. We are finally starting to see the wave of main actors and criminals from 2021 and 2022 get washed up and sent into the places where they belong for stealing money from hard earned stealing hard-earned money from people who aren't necessarily um accredited investors and really just your everyday average retail investor who aren't as sophisticated as traditional accredited investors which is largely why Mashinsky probably saw closer to 12 years rather than three because of the people he prayed on. Uh, additionally, this one is just stupid. Uh, a USbased man sent $185,000 to ISIS in 2019. He's been sentenced to 30 years in prison. Could possibly face more. Um, and part of the issues for why beyond sending money to a terrorist group, why uh this individual is also spending more time in jail uh is because he tried to flee the US during an FBI probe. Um, he ended up uh taking money out of an ATM and then going to a Taco Bell where he paid someone to drive him to a relative's house and then the relative drove him to a grocery store and then he purchased a series of bus tickets misspelling his name and using recently created email accounts and then traveled from Virginia to Mexico to Guatemala and then bought plane tickets from Guatemala to Panama and then onto Germany and then Egypt. But an Interpol blue notice was issued. he was caught and sent back to the US. Don't do crime, but even more importantly, don't send money to terrorist groups. Um, wrapping up, Meta is exploring stablecoin integration for payouts. Meta is, of course, the parent company for Facebook, and they want to integrate stable coin payments into its platforms after a three-year hiatus from cryptocurrencies. This is uh kind of ringing bells and and making me laugh a little bit because the whole reason why the United States government is even talking about crypto or stable coins at all today can largely be tied to a pivotal point that happened about three years ago and that was when Facebook Meta put forth the Libracoin which later got termed DM which was going to be a basket of commodities and different currencies. that backed a Facebook stable coin. And Congress went nuts on Facebook. They didn't think that a centralized entity should be able to create a stable coin. And that was largely what kicked off Congress and regulators and legislators actually caring about crypto and blockchain. Um, that's just my speculation, but everything changed after Facebook started having its congressional hearings about the Libra stable coin. And lastly, lots of people on Poly Market lost lots of money because the Pope, who's an American, was a 1% chance to win on Poly Market and about $28 million in losses was was um experienced because people placed bets on candidates other than Provost, the American. um largely why I think the papay election was such a money losing event for others especially when we've seen prediction markets be very very accurate when it comes to public elections it's because there wasn't any insider information that was leaked the 133 cardinals that voted on the pope do so in a very tight-knit room where no information is able to get out so Um, uh, one of the folks associated with Poly Market said, "It's like walking into a store that doesn't communicate with the outside world. Not even the participants themselves would probably know how to handicap it." So, there you go. That is probably why there was such a rampantly wide market on this particular prediction market. That just about wraps up this week and today for the Daily Digest. If you appreciated what you saw, please head over to the Smart Economy podcast subreddit where you can keep up to date with all of our daily digests, our weekly spaces, and our bimonthly podcasts. And with all that said, have a great weekend and we'll catch you next time.